 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE PRIVATE sector-led Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), on Tuesday, fulfilled its pledge to the Lagos State Government by donating 260 medical oxygen gas cylinders and a newly purchased incinerator to the Yaba Isolation Centre in Lagos. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Aliko Dangote Foundation, who doubles as an administrator of CACOVID, Zouera Youssoufou, said, though a total number of 260 gas cylinders of different sizes were donated to the Lagos State government, including an incinerator, for now, CACOVID would do more to assist Lagos and other states in winning the fight against COVID-19. She spoke to journalists at the commissioning of the Incinerator and presentation of gas cylinders to the Lagos State government. The MD explained that incineration was a waste treatment process that involved the combustion of organic substances contained in waste materials, adding that this would eradicate the risk of the waste from the isolation centre in the community. She also noted that the incineration could be moved from one centre to another and could serve the whole isolation centres in the State. Expressing the appreciation of the state government to members of the CACOVID team, Commissioner for Health in Lagos State, Dr Akinola Abayomi, applauded the prompt intervention of the team, at a time the state was in dire need of both oxygen and its cylinders. He said CACOVID showed up at a time oxygen cylinders were so hard to find and for this, the State would remain very appreciative of the kind gesture. Abayomi noted that CACOVID had always come to the support of the government. On the demand for Oxygen, he said, “Our demand has not exceeded our supply”, adding that the logistics behind oxygen was quite complex and sophisticated. He also pointed out that the waste coming out of the isolation centre was biomedical waste, which was toxic to humans, saying that the incinerator would reduce its potential risk on the community. He said it could be used for the next 50 years. Youssoufou recently said the provision of oxygen to all the isolation centres across the country was made possible by a key partner of CACOVID, Mr Raj Gupta of the African Industries Group, at no costs, immediately the request for oxygen was made from the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Gupta promised that his company would continue to provide oxygen, free of charge, to all the states across the country, through CACOVID. He said, “We will continue to support Nigeria with oxygen for free for as long as this is required. No Covid patient in any public hospital or isolation centre should have to pay for oxygen,” he said. 