 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI FOUR staff of the Ebonyi State Ministry of Power have been arrested for allegedly stealing diesel meant for powering  streetlights across the state. Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Uchenna Orji, who disclosed this while briefing journalists on the outcome of the State’s Executive Council meeting held at the EXCO chambers, old Government House, Abakaliki, said a disciplinary committee had been set up to try, dismiss and prosecute the suspects. Orji added that the owner of the house where the suspects allegedly kept the stolen diesel would pay a compulsory N5million punitive fine or the house would be sealed by government to serve as deterrent to others. He said, “EXCO received a sad report of the four staff of the Ministry of Power and their cronies that connived to steal several quantities of diesel meant to power the street light. EXCO resolved that a disciplinary committee be set up to try, dismiss and prosecute the persons involved accordingly. “EXCO also resolved that the owner of the house used in perpetrating this state sabotage shall be made to pay N5m as a punitive measure or the house be sealed. This is intended to serve as a deterrent to others.” The Information Commissioner added that the State government had banned the collection of revenue by cash, henceforth, in the state, in order to curb revenue leakages, noting that anybody found doing so would be arrested and prosecuted and would be made to pay 200 per cent of the revenue sought to be paid. He said, “A report of revenue leakages was taken. The EXCO considered a report and resolved that with effect from the 24th day of March 2021, it shall be an offence in Ebonyi State for anybody to make payment in respect of IGR by cash. So, there will be no payment by cash in respect of any form of IGR in Ebonyi State. “We have a law on this, but by administrative means, we are going to enforce that law. That is intendment of this resolution of EXCO. And anybody who does that henceforth, shall pay 200 per cent of the value of the revenue sought to be paid and shall be prosecuted accordingly.” Orji said the State Executive Council observed with dismay the rising spate of fake land documents in the state, and other activities of unscrupulous elements and would constitute a committee by April, 2021, to handle the processes of land documents revalidation in the state. He noted, “The State Executive Council deliberated on the issue of revalidation of Certificate of Occupancy in all lands in Ebonyi State, and a report was received on the rising spate of fake land documents in Ebonyi State, which many a time, they would take it to the banks to receive facility and it would be turned down. “EXCO also observed with dismay, that some people who served as land officials in the past still sign and backdate land documents for unsuspecting members of the public. EXCO noted that the revalidation of Certificate of Occupancy and land documents in the state would put a permanent stop to this ugly situation, and that this measure will also resolve the issue of two persons laying claim to one land document. “EXCO therefore, resolved that the state government constitutes a committee in April 2021 to handle the processes of land documents revalidation.” On the issue of the collapse of the perimeter fence of the new stadium, the Commissioner also disclosed that a committee had been set up to verify the cause of the collapse, to be Chaired by Engr. Mohammed Idris, and was given seven working days to submit their report. The Committee’s terms of reference, according to Orji, are to verify total work done, total work yet to be done, level and value of the fence that collapsed and the reason for the collapse. “EXCO also made some financial approvals. One, is for the construction of parking lots at the airport. They are approved in three phases. Phase one is the sum of N949,340,000. The second phase is N950,000000, and third phase which is the procurement of the lifts and the escalators is at the sum of N643,000000,” the Commissioner said. 