 BY AGENCY REPORTER US businesswoman, Jennifer Arcuri, on Sunday, revealed she slept with Boris Johnson in his family home while his wife, Marina Wheeler, was away, and they were almost rumbled. And she tells how the pair read Shakespeare before they had sex on the sofa. Our exclusive image shows her beaming in a selfie she took at the then-London mayor’s £3.35million Grade II-listed townhouse that he shared with wife Marina Wheeler. But she also reveals she felt uncomfortable after having sex at the PM’s marital home. Speaking of their intimate moment in his living room in March 2016, Arcuri said: “We were discussing some of the latest chapters from his book. “He said, ‘I have a complete writer’s block. I need to figure what I’m trying to say but I want you to hear it. I really need you, baby, I really need you.’ “We moved on to reading Macbeth, which was a kind of foreplay routine we had. I said, ‘Let’s skip to the good stuff’. He said, ‘I love that about you, you just want to get to the good part.’ “After we made love… I felt conflicted being there in his family home and seeing him like this but I couldn’t help but love the feeling of being desired.” Marina, a QC who Johnson said was working at the time, arriving home just minutes after his lover left. Arcuri added: “If I’d have stayed 10 minutes more I would’ve been in the house when Marina got back. That’s not a great feeling. “We slept together at his family home, and in some ways, it was fun, but it didn’t sit right. I realised this wouldn’t just be a one-off. Messages between the pair show how Mr Johnson had texted Arcuri the address of the house in Islington, North London, before saying he wanted to “check the coast is gonna be clear”. After being given the go-ahead Arcuri arrived to find the future PM planning a meal of cheesy pasta. He poured two glasses of red wine but had to run to the corner shop when he realised he’d forgotten the cheese – leaving his mistress alone. Arcuri said she was initially amused Mr Johnson was brazen enough to leave her in the house while he popped out – and snapped a selfie in his kitchen as a memento. She added: “It was the most bizarre feeling, an awkward moment. I thought, ‘You’re leaving me in your house? What kind of woman am I?’ When people tell you who they are, believe them.” The US entrepreneur did not rate Mr Johnson’s culinary skills. She described the pasta dish as “perfectly inedible”, and added: “He can barely find his socks, let alone cook dinner. It was horrible. It was soggy and limp. This man was completely useless in the kitchen.” Arcuri revealed Mr Johnson spoke little of his family and she “never asked questions” but by early 2016 she was starting to feel increasingly uncomfortable about what she describes as their four-year affair. Texts seen by the Mirror show she sent Mr Johnson instructions to wash the dishes after she left so his wife wouldn’t be suspicious. Arcuri even told him to empty the bins after cutting her foot on the way to the house, and having disposed of her stockings in a kitchen bin. She wrote: “When in kitchen, while cooking I took off my stockings and put them on side of kitchen island. Apologies in leaving something behind. To be certain, I would remove.” It wasn’t the first close call the pair had experienced. In August 2015, they discovered they had both booked tickets to a Sunday matinee performance of Shakespeare’s Richard II at The Globe. Arcuri took a male flatmate and noticed Mr Johnson, who she then claims was her lover of three years, was in the crowd with Marina She said: “We had seen each other the Friday before. I made mention I was going to the Sunday matinee. “To both our surprise, he said, ‘So am I. Richard II?’” Arcuri avoided eye contact with her lover throughout the performance but says Mr Johnson “didn’t stop staring at me at any point”. She added: “My room-mate was my eyes, because I wouldn’t dare look at him. “My room-mate made a joke at one point about him, ‘Is he going to beat me up later? Should I leave?’” Mr Johnson later sent Arcuri a message which read: “I kept seeing a gorgeous blonde at Shakespeare and thinking she looked familiar.” When she asked if he enjoyed the show, he replied: “Immensely. Richard II pretty good too.” Arcuri claims Mr Johnson saw her regularly behind the back of Marina, who he wed in 1993. Yesterday, she told the Sunday Mirror her affair with the PM had begun in August 2012 – hours before he sat next to the royals at the Paralympic opening ceremony. Arcuri was granted access to events at three top-level trade missions, despite her businesses not meeting the criteria for the trips. The Independent Office for Police Conduct said there was no evidence he had committed the criminal offence of misconduct in public office but he may have breached the Nolan Principles of ethical standards. Len Duvall, the chair of the Greater London Authority oversight committee, which is conducting the investigation, said: “Our investigation will consider whether Boris Johnson conducted himself in a way that’s expected from anyone in that position. It’s important we get those answers, as Londoners deserve to have their politicians held accountable.” Arcuri said she and the PM bonded over their love of classic -literature before they began sleeping together and swapping intimate messages. During his second mayoral term, she claims Johnson was a regular visitor to her flat in Shoreditch, East London, – which had a dancing pole – and often popped in on his way home from City Hall. She said: “One of the conveniences was I’m 15 minutes from Angel (where he lived at the time). I was on his way home. “He came to my flat. It was a strategy I had… it was almost like a power play to keep him… if you want to see me, then you come to me, I’m not dancing around the city trying to find you. You do not ignore me, if you want to see me, you make time.” But Arcuri admitted she fell in love with Mr Johnson – and eventually started to let her guard down by accepting invitations to his marital home near to the end of the affair. Yet after he had left her alone in his kitchen on that night, she started to question how Mr Johnson’s family would feel if the pair were rumbled. She said: “Looking back, everyone has a story where they feel disappointed in their actions, right? “But they’ll never be disappointed with what they’ve learned. “I could have handled things very differently. I’m a different person now. All women have experiences in their lives and not all of them are the best memories, but all of them make a mark on who you are, how you learn and how you develop. “I’ve had to step back and look at exactly what happened here and I don’t want to be defined by this. I was never defined by Boris Johnson.” This would prove to be the last time she visited Mr Johnson. By the end of that year, she was in a serious relationship with now husband Matthew Hickey and had become pregnant with their daughter. But she said she has always been open with him about her affair with Mr Johnson. Arcuri added: “I said, ‘Look, there’s something about me you need to know. I’m a very open book here. “I’m not trying to play the two of you, but this has been the most consistent man in my life, given the -circumstances. Feel free to show him up.’ And he did. “Every other man in my life would get close to me, then they’d find out [about Mr Johnson] and get very insecure. Matthew wasn’t.” But Arcuri revealed her husband was completely unprepared for the media furore which would erupt when the story of her friendship with Mr Johnson broke in September 2019. She said: “It’s been very hard on him.” The paper later claimed it had been told by Arcuri’s pals the relationship with Mr Johnson was sexual. Mr Johnson did not deny this but told the BBC’s Andrew Marr he had acted with “full propriety” and denied he had an interest in Arcuri. Speaking in September 2019, he said: “There was no interest to declare… let’s be -absolutely clear, I am very, very proud of everything that we did and certainly -everything that I did as mayor of London.” Mr Johnson split with long-suffering Marina in 2018, shortly before news of his -relationship with former Tory spin doctor Carrie Symonds became public. He now lives in Downing Street with Carrie, 33, who gave birth to their son Wilfred last year, and the couple’s dog Dilyn. Last night, No 10 declined to comment on Arcuri’s claims. – mirror.co.uk 