 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE SENIOR Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, said, on Tuesday, that President Muhammadu Buhari’s medical trip to London did not warrant transmitting power to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. While faulting reports that Buhari went on an emergency medical trip, he said talks about him handing over to his Vice was not necessary since he would only be staying for two weeks. Shehu spoke on Channels Television’s Politics Today programme. He said, “Before he left, he just finished a meeting with security chiefs. He had an excellent chat with the vice president, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief of Staff, so he has taken it all around. “If it is warranted that he signs documents, these are transmissible by wire, the internet is there and the President is equally internet savvy. Therefore, work can continue without any obstruction from whichever location he is. He will continue from wherever he is.” The Presidential spokesperson said, in line with the requirement of the law, transmission of power would be required only if the President was going to be absent for 21days or more. Explaning the circumstances surrounding the trip, he said, “It is a medical trip, and there is absolutely no urgency or emergency.  The President is not in any sick condition. It’s a routine medical check-up. The President has overtaken this with a set of doctors that he has known over many years. “He has done this before he came into office in 2015 and has continued to do that without any disruption. For last year, 2020, he couldn’t make it because of travel restrictions that was caused by COVID-19. It’s a routine and we are hoping that the President comes back after the check up.” On whether the President’s doctors visited him during the lockdown in 2020, he noted, “The President enjoyed good round of health. When his classmates come visiting, you will know that the President is doing well. He chose this moment because it’s like a holiday season as Friday is a national holiday, so he’s taking advantage of the Easter season.”  