 FOLASHADE KEHINDE FORMER Minister of Finance, Nenadi Usman, has approached the Independent Investigative Panel on Human Rights Violations by the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad and other units of the Nigeria Police Force, sitting in Abuja, over the extra-judicial killing of her niece, Miss Anita Akapson, by a policeman on October 13, 2018. In a joint petition filed by Usman and the deceased’s family before the Panel, they are demanding a compensation of N5billion from the Police. Anita, 31, who had just returned from Kent University, United Kingdom, was shot at close range by a now dismissed Deputy Superintendent of Police, identified as Godwin Wagozie. The Police had explained that she was killed in a case of mistaken identity, arguing that the police officer shot at her because he mistook her for an armed robber escaping from a crime scene. The killer police officer, DSP Wagozie, had however since been prosecuted and sentenced to 16 years imprisonment. But the former finance minister and the deceased’s family faulted the argument of the Police in several petitions forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari, National Security Adviser and Chairman, Police Service Commission. They said Anita was “trailed, targeted, intercepted, her vehicle brushed, blocked and shot at close range by a police officer while she was sitting in her vehicle (An Honda Accord Salon) at Katampe District, Abuja.” “The circumstances of the trailing, tracking and gruesome murder of the deceased who had a strong affinity with Senator Nenadi Usman, a member of the leading opposition political party in Nigeria, and who is presently facing continuous prosecutions from the States, unleashed with inattentive executive sanctions, calls for thorough and comprehensive investigation,” they argued. The 1st to 3rd Respondents in the petition of Usman and the deceased’s family, marked 2020/IIP/SARS/ABJ/192, are Wagozie, who served at the Gwarinpa Division of the FCT Police Command, the Commissioner of Police, FCT, and the Inspector General of Police. Mother of the deceased, Mrs. Esther Akapson, who was led in evidence by their lawyer, Obinna Ugwu, said, “I am the mother of the deceased, a civil servant and Chief Accountant with the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation. “On October 13, 2018, we got a call from my elder daughter that Anita was shot and she died as a result of the shot. The Police blocked her car. The late Anita was a graduate of Kent University in the UK. She could have stayed back to get job there, but she chose to come to Nigeria. “We have been traumatized. It has not been easy for me. No amount of money can bring her back. We are before this panel to seek compensation to assuage the trauma the family has passed through. Anita was an asset for the family but her life was cut short because they of the carelessness of a Policeman.” She also pointed out that since the incident, there had been no delegation of the Police to console the family. Police lawyer, James Idachaba, however reminded the panel, headed by a former Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Suleiman Galadima, that the officer involved in the extra-judicial murder case had since been dismissed from the Police Force. On this basis, he said it was improper to still refer to him as DSP in the petition. Justice Sulieman adjourned the matter indefinitely and asked the Police to send a high-powered delegation to commiserate with the family of the deceased