 FOLASHADE KEHINDE LEGALLY married, first wife of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, Regina, has reacted to the ongoing dispute between her former co-wife, Precious Chikwendu, and her husband, saying the estranged wife and her family were desperately in need of help when she took over her home. Describing Chikwendu as an ingrate, she claimed that all the defamatory statements the lady had written about her husband since the news of their separation broke in September 2020, were lies. Regina, a businesswoman cum pastor, stated these in a statement on the matter released on Saturday. She accused Precious of collecting over half a million dollars from their husband in the first few months of meeting him for a fake investment and called her to thank him on her (Precious) behalf. According to the first wife, slandering and insulting a man who has done so much for her and her family, not minding the effect it will have on her (Precious) children, proves that she is “insane.” She had earlier said that she allowed her husband to marry Precious because he told her he was lonely and needed someone. In the beginning, the two wives were friends, it was learnt, but the relationship had since gone sour. THE POINT had reported that Precious dragged the Peoples Democratic Party chieftain before the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, seeking, among others, the custody of the four children produced by the marriage. She, however, said she was willing to consider “reasonable right of access to the respondent.” Precious also asked the court to restrain Fani-Kayode and his agents from “forcibly abducting” the children from her custody. She is praying the court to order the former minister to pay a monthly allowance of N3.438million to her for the upkeep of the children, aside from funds for their educational needs and other ancillary expenses. She reiterated, in an affidavit supporting her suit, marked, ‘CV/372/2021’, filed by her lawyer, Mrs. E. D. Moi-Wuyep, that Fani-Kayode allegedly subjected her to both verbal and physical abuses during their six-year relationship. Reacting on Saturday, Mrs. Fani-Kayode said, “Precious Chikwendu, a strange woman that he took under his roof, married under law and custom, and lived with for seven years. Who are you trying to fool? You are nothing but a wretched ingrate and God will punish you and all your siblings for your ingratitude and lies. ‘‘Precious, you are just a sick woman and a big liar. I know you collected over half a million USD dollars from Femi within the first few months of meeting him for a fake investment. “We have witnesses to prove it and remember that you even asked me to thank him for it. I also know he set you up in one business or the other four times in seven years and got you offices etc. but you squandered it all.” She added, ‘‘You knew he was still married to me because you and I spoke countless times on the phone and you even stayed in my room and wore my clothes. ‘‘You had nothing when he took you in, you are so ungrateful. Six of your relatives lived in my house for six years and they were all depending on Femi for food, upkeep, medical bills, and school fees. Even your sister’s wedding was paid for by him.” Regina said when Precious married her husband and took over her home, she and her family were like hungry refugees. “You had nothing but rubber slippers and you were desperate for help,” she claimed. “My husband sent three of your siblings to the best schools for seven years and took care of their every need yet you now slander him and insult him not minding the effect it will have on your own children. That in itself proves that you are insane,” FFK’s legally married wife said. She added, “You say he has mental issues meanwhile you were the one that was locked up in a mental hospital for one month after trying to kill him and his children. “You stayed in the home of a man with mental problems for six years and allowed your mother, Aunty, two brothers, and sisters to stay there too?” 