 BY BIMPE ADEYEMI THE Arewa Youth Assembly has given Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, 72 hours to move Yorubas out of the Northern region of the country. The Northern youths warned that if he failed to adhere to the ultimatum, they would take the responsibility of helping him to convey his people back to the South West. They called on Northern elders, traditional rulers and all security agencies to support them in evacuating the Yoruba people out of the 19 Northern States, including the Federal Capital Territory, so as to “make it a peaceful exercise devoid of loss of lives.” According to them, their position is based on Igboho’s declaration that it was time to form a Yoruba nation and that the region would no longer tolerate the presence of Northerners. The Arewa Youth Assembly spoke in a statement issued by its Speaker, Mohammed Salihu Danlami, on Friday. The youths faulted Igboho’s stand at a press conference he held recently, saying that this was despite the fact that the constitution of the country had made it crystal clear that any Nigerian could live in any part of the country irrespective of his or her religious and tribal leaning. The statement said, “The Arewa youth Assembly still affirms its position as a law-abiding civil youth organisation. Notwithstanding, it will not fold its arms and watch innocent Nigerians being threatened by individuals who clearly have no regard and respect for the law. “As such, we will like to bring to the notice of Mr Igboho that since it is he who wants his people out of the North to form a Yoruba nation, we will make it easy for him by asking Mr Igboho to provide a means of transportation to convey his people to the South-West. “We are hereby giving him the ultimatum of 72 hours to move his people out or we will be forced to take necessary actions by personally taking the responsibility of getting his people back home.” The youths accused Igboho of continuously threatening the lives and properties of Northerners residing in the South-West for no reason. “We have kept quiet for the sake of peace and for the respect of the laws of our country. But as Mr Igboho rightly said, ENOUGH IS ENOUGH. He either calls himself and his accomplices to order or force us to retaliate the best way we know how,” they said. “It is in the light of this recent event that we wish to call on the Northern elders, traditional rulers and all security agencies to support us in accomplishing this task of evacuating the Yoruba out of the 19 Northern States and the FCT Abuja, making it a very peaceful exercise devoid of loss of lives and destruction of properties or hijack by hoodlums to prevent the reoccurrence of the EndSARS protest,” the Arewa youths added. 