 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Lagos State Special Traffic Management Team has impounded about 200 trucks in the last 48 hours in the Apapa area of Lagos over various offences, ranging from non-possession of electronic call-up slip and indiscriminate parking, among others. The impounded vehicles have been towed to the Oshodi yard of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority. This was disclosed by the leader of the Special Traffic Team and Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Transportation, Oluwatoyin Fayinka. The state government’s action followed the gridlock, which persisted on the Oshodi-Apapa expressway, in spite of the latest effort to decongest the road. The congestion, which trapped motorists on the axis for several hours, was part of the teething problems being faced in enforcing the new strategy, the state government said. Fayinka, however, noted that the Government had been moving gradually to ease traffic on the axis, noting that in line with the enforcement strategy, the team had been engaging in cleaning up activities. He said, “Our enforcement strategy is gradual. We have been cleaning up the other side of the axis at Area B, Ijora into the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA. “We are moving in gradually to other areas for clean up which include Mile-2 end and environs. As we speak, in the last 48 hours, we have impounded about 200 trucks for various offences, ranging from non-possession of electronic call-up slip and indiscriminate parking.” He added, “The vehicles have been towed to Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, LASTMA, Oshodi Yard, and the owners will have to pay fine before those vehicles will be released. “Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has given us the go-ahead to enforce the rules of engagement in his determination to rid Apapa of gridlock. This we are determined to achieve.” “What you are experiencing now is the initial teething problems expected. We will get over it in due course. We are appealing to motorists and residents to be patient as everything is being done to arrest the situation and ensure the free flow of traffic,” the SA noted. 