 BY VICTORIA ONU, ABUJA THE Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Central Bank of Nigeria and Africa Finance Corporation have extended, by two weeks, the deadline for receipt of final proposals for the appointment of Asset Manager for the N15trillion Infrastructure Corporation of Nigeria. The deadline was initially set for 12noon Nigerian time on 16th March, 2021, but it has been extended by two weeks to 12noon, Nigerian time, on 30th March, 2021. The extension was confirmed in a statement signed on behalf of the Promoters by the Deputy Governor, Economic Policy, CBN, Dr. Kingsley Obiora. The statement read, “Reference is made to the request by the Promoters (the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Africa Finance Corporation, and the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority), for Expressions of Interest from qualified asset managers active in the infrastructure sector to manage the Infrastructure Corporation of Nigeria Limited (InfraCorp). “This communique is to convey an extension to the deadline for receipt of final proposals in response to the detailed Request for Proposals (RfP) from 12 noon Nigerian time on 16 March 2021, by 2 weeks, to 12 noon Nigerian time on 30 March 2021. “The process remains the same such that upon expression of interest through InfraCorp@cbn.gov.ng, the Promoters shall share a detailed RfP document, providing potential asset managers with the necessary information to prepare appropriate proposals in line with the Promoters’ requirements.” The asset manager will be responsible for establishing a General Partner/Asset Manager organization, develop the consolidated business plan and financial model for InfraCorp and its subsidiaries. Speaking on the InfraCorp take-off, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, had said funds would be utilised to support the Federal Government in building the transport infrastructure required to move agriculture products to processors, raw materials to factories, and finished goods to markets. He said President Muhammadu Buhari had continued to give the necessary approvals and support to establish the company. 