 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO FOR describing two members of the cabinet of Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, as opportunists and liabilities, the state government has invited the Field Commandant of the State’s Amotekun Corps, Comrade Amitolu Shittu, to appear before a disciplinary committee. Shittu had lambasted the Chief of Staff to Governor Oyetola, Charles Akinola; and the Governor’s Special Adviser on Security, Mrs Abiodun Ige, in a lengthy statement posted on his Facebook page last Wednesday. While Shittu called Akinola an opportunist and liability, the Amotekun Chief described Ige, a former Police Commissoner in the state, as politically deficit. It was gathered that Shittu’s outburst might not be unconnected with the forthcoming 2022 Governorship election in the state and the rift between Governor Oyetola and the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. Amitolu said Oyetola, while he was the CoS to former Governor Rauf Aregbesola, performed well and was never a political liability to Osun. “However, these cannot be said about some hangers-on and opportunists at the corridors of power, who are reaping where they did not sow,” he noted. The Amotekun Commander’s Facebook post read, “Record cannot lie. Charles Akindiji Akinola has no political relevance in Osun. This is a man who failed when he headed O’REAP as Director-General and has nothing to write home about as his account of stewardship at O’REAP. Politics is beyond grammatical expression and America phonetics because politics itself is local and grassrooted. “If Governor Oyetola, like the hangers on, attaches importance to being self-centred, the government he is leading would have become unpopular, just like the wish of Charles Akinola. “Today, as a responsible appointee of Mr Governor, Charles Akindiji Akinola should have borrowed a leaf from the present SSG, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, who, in his wisdom, has popularized the government of Oyetola the more, in his Egbedore Local Government, through various empowerment programmes, including the provision of solar street light for his people. “To say that Charles is a political liability is an understatement. Of a fact, he is a terrible political liability, masteric in the game of busy body and arrogant in character. “Charles Akinola and Mrs Abiodun Ige, the so-called SA Security, are birds of a feather. Abiodun Ige is using the name of Jesus Christ to deceive people and claiming to be holy, knowing full well that deep inside her, she is not fit to be the personality she is portraying. “Abiodun Ige is a pathological liar, pretender and backbiter. Above all, she is politically deficit. She is another liability to our government and instead of her to face the reality, she is busy looking for Amitolu Shittu’s downfall (which will never come to reality) to cover her inadequacy, deficiency, incompetency and lack of direction. She is self-centred and too greedy.” Owing to the controversy the weighty accusations and attacks had generated, the State Government invited Shittu to appear before a disciplinary committee it set up. A statement issued at the weekend, through the official Twitter handle of the state @stateofosun read, “Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, willing to ensure that discipline is instilled in his cabinet, especially considering that Amitolu is also a serving member of his government, has directed a Committee headed by the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji, to wade into the matter and submit the proceedings of their intervention within 72 hours. “Other members of the Committee include: the Deputy Chief of Staff, Prince Abdullah Adeyanju Binuyo; Chairman, Osun Security Network and Amotekun Corps Board- Gen. Ademola Aderibigbe; Commissioner for Finance, Bola Oyebamiji; and Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode.” It was gathered that Shittu had deleted the Facebook post after it generated public reaction. 