 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Securities and Exchange Commission has rolled out new rules guiding the registration of Warehousing and Collateral Management companies in Nigeria. The rules require Fidelity Bond, representing 20 per cent of paid-up capital; sworn undertaking to keep proper records and render returns; and evidence of minimum paid-up capital of N50million, among others. A statement by SEC on Sunday, which disclosed this, added that the Company would also require an application for registration of a minimum of two sponsored individuals one of whom shall be the chief executive officer. The Commission said the new rules would ensure a vibrant commodities trading ecosystem for the nation. This, it said, would in turn translate into foreign exchange earnings for the country. SEC, in the new rules, requires that every warehouse that stores commodities to be traded on a registered Exchange shall apply to be registered by the Commission, while the Commission shall maintain a register of all registered warehouses which shall be published on its website. It stated, “A warehouse applying for registration, going by the rule, shall submit proof of ownership or registered-lease deed or rent agreement, along with disclaimer from the owner of the warehouse/property providing waiver of ownership regarding commodities stored in such warehouse, in case of leased or rented warehouse;  present evidence of construction in compliance with the National Building Code, present evidence of compliance with relevant Federal and State regulation relating to the operation of warehouses, and have facility(ies) appropriate for storage of commodities. “Other requirements are that the warehouse should have appropriate security arrangements in place, have adequate trained staff with expertise and knowledge of scientific storage of commodities, have requisite equipment for weighing and quality measures of commodities, as well as have comprehensive insurance cover for the building, equipment, stock and other items as may be necessary. “The warehouse should be located in a place with access to infrastructure to support its operations and have sufficient space for parking and movement of large vehicles, have an efficient system for loading/unloading of Commodity including proper mechanism for segregation of different kinds/quality of Commodity. “They are to submit a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which shall cover the following among others: Procedures for acceptance of commodities to be deposited and delivery of commodities; procedures for weighing, sampling of goods to be deposited in compliance with industry standards, procedure for verification of commodities and communication to depositors, and procedure for maintaining the quality of the goods stored in line with relevant specifications. “Others are procedure for know your depositor, security policy for ensuring the safety of the goods, procedure for the use of modern techniques for storage of goods, procedure for determining and addressing losses due to theft, fire, burglary, fraud, negligence and force majeure events, procedure for internal verification of stock, procedure for maintenance of warehouse and preservations of Stock, Organisational structure and Job description for every staff.” According to the new rules, for a Collateral Management Company to be registered by SEC, an application shall be filed to the Commission, accompanied by relevant documents. 