 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Vice President Atiku Abubakar has faulted the Federal Executive Council’s approval of $1.5 billion for the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refinery, describing it as prohibitive. He said the nation must, at this critical period, be prudent with the use of whatever revenue it could generate, noting that even if the country must borrow, it should be done with the utmost responsibility and discipline. The former VP added that Nigeria could not expect to make economic progress if it continued to fund inefficiency, noting that “we are going too deep into the debt trap for unnecessarily overpriced projects.” Atiku, who was the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 election, made his position known in a statement titled, ‘$1.5 billion to renovate Port Harcourt Refinery.’ FEC had, on Wednesday, given approval for the turnaround maintenance of the Port Harcourt refinery for $1.5 billion. The former VP, however faulted this approval, citing the case of Shell Petroleum Development Company, which, he said, sold a refinery of similar size as the Port Harcourt Refinery for $1.2 billion in California, United States, last year. He wondered why the nation would budget such amount for the renovation of a refinery at a critical period of increased unemployment and inflation, saying it would “appear to be an unwise use of scarce funds.” Atiku said, “That Nigeria’s economy is in dire straits is a fact well known both to the nation and to our international partners. Unemployment has just reached an all-time high of 33 per cent, while inflation has hit another record high of 17 per cent. “At this critical period, we must as a nation be prudent with the use of whatever revenue we can generate, and even if we must borrow, we must do so with the utmost responsibility and discipline. “To, therefore, budget the sum of $1.5 billion to renovate or turn around the Port Harcourt Refinery would appear to be an unwise use of scarce funds at this critical juncture for an assortment of reasons.” Listing some reasons, he said, “First, our refineries have been loss-making for multiple years, and indeed, it is questionable wisdom to throw good money after bad. At other times, I have counselled that the best course of action would be to privatise our refineries to be run more effectively and efficiently. “Moreover, the cost appears prohibitive. Too prohibitive, especially as Shell Petroleum Development Company last year sold its Martinez Refinery in California, USA, which is of a similar size as the Port Harcourt refinery for $1.2 billion. “We must bear in mind that the Shell Martinez Refinery is more profitable than the Port Harcourt Refinery.” He asked if, given this discrepancy, there was a public tender before the cost was announced or if due diligence was done, saying, “We are certainly not getting value for money. Not by a long stretch.” “We cannot as a nation expect to make economic progress if we continue to fund inefficiency, and we are going too deep into the debt trap for unnecessarily overpriced projects,” Atiku noted. 