 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Osun State Police Command has said that the killing of six members of a family by some unknown gunmen at Wasinmi village, Ikire, Osun State was not connected with any farmers/herders clash. A statement issued by the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, Yemisi Opalola, on Sunday, said the attackers killed six persons and injured one. Opalola disclosed that the assailants escaped after sighting security operatives. The Police denied reports in some sections of the media that the killings were the aftermath of a clash between farmers and herders in the settlement. Meanwhile, the State Police Commissioner, Olawale Olokode, said some men of the command were already carrying out a manhunt for the assailants. The statement reads, “The Osun State Police Command wishes to state categorically that the unfortunate attack on a family at a settlement in the outskirts of Wasinmi Village, Ikire, Osun State, today 14th March, 2021, is not connected with any clash between farmers and herders as speculated in some sections of the media. “The Commissioner of Police, Osun State Command, CP Olawale Olokode, who visited the scene of the incident for an ‘on-the-spot security assessment’, noted that the Command had commenced discrete investigations into the incident and already carrying out intensive manhunt for the perpetrators to bring them to justice. “The CP notes that preliminary investigations by the Police reveal that some yet to be identified gunmen, stormed, attacked and shot sporadically at a family of six (6) at a settlement in the outskirts of Wasinmi Village, Ikire, Osun State, leaving one (1) person injured. “Police Operatives from Ikire Division and other law enforcement agencies were promptly drafted to the scene to prevent further attacks on residents in the area and arrest the perpetrators but the attackers escaped on sighting the security team. “The CP appeals to the people of the State, particularly residents of Ikire and its environs not to panic but collaborate with the Police by giving timely information that will assist in arresting the culprits. He reassures them of the commitment of the Police to their safety, as adequate security measures have been emplaced to forestall future occurrences of such incident. “The CP also enjoins reporters to verify their news before making it public in order to avoid disinformation that could trigger unnecessary crises capable of disrupting the existing peace being enjoyed in the State.” 