 RIMI ALIU Members of House of Representatives from Plateau State have passed a vote of confidence in the Deputy Speaker of the House, Ahmed Idris Wase, amid ongoing criticisms over his rejection of a petition by people of Tiv nation resident in the United States. The lawmakers said the incident, which ought to be a purely parliamentary affair, had been given an ethnic and political coloration. They conveyed their vote of confidence in the Deputy Speaker in a statement signed by the leader of the state caucus, Beni Lar on Monday. While describing Wase as a seasoned legislator, who had represented his people well over the years, the House of Representatives members implored the public not to misunderstand his intentions. The statement read, “We, the entire members of the Plateau State Caucus in the House of Representatives wish to reiterate our full confidence in the Leadership of the Deputy Speaker, Rt Hon Ahmed Idris Wase. “Our resolve has become imperative following an unfortunate incident between the Deputy Speaker and another colleague during plenary which has since gone viral on social media. “The incident has since been given an ethnic and political coloration which ought to be a purely parliamentary affair. “Let it be noted that the Rt. Hon Idris Wase is a seasoned legislator who has over the years represented the people of Wase, Plateau, the North Central and the entire nation effectively. “During this period, he has enjoyed the tremendous respect of his colleagues and his people. “He has sponsored many bills and motions that have been key to the development of our nation and enhanced governance. “Hs a Presiding Officer, he is known to have listening ears and accommodating of all views. “We in Plateau State and the North Central have witnessed the infrastructural and human development attributed to the Deputy Speaker such as Roads, medical facilities, rural electrification, exploration of mineral resources, employment opportunities and countless gestures attributed to his diligence and passion for the entire North Central that he represents and the nation at large. “As colleagues, he is passionate about the growth of our constituencies too. “We as a caucus therefore implore the public not to misunderstand the intentions of the Deputy Speaker who is known to act in accordance with laid down procedures.” 