 SALIU SALIU SPEAKER of the Kogi State House of Assembly, Mathew Kolawale, on Wednesday, led other lawmakers in the state to lobby for the support of their counterparts in Kano State for the Presidential ambition of Governor Yahaya Bello. The Speaker said they decided to come to Kano in view of the fact that the state had the largest number of delegates to the next Congress of the ruling All Progressives Congress. Kolawole, who disclosed the lawmakers’ mission in Kano to journalists, was received by the Speaker of the Kano State House of Assembly, Hamisu Chidari. While stressing the capacity of Governor Bello to rule Nigeria efficently, he argued that anyone who could rule Kogi State for one year could lead the country. “We are in Kano to seek for the support of our colleagues in pursuit of My Governor, Yahaya Bello’s presidential ambition. Bello is a young man. He is the youngest among the Nigerian governors. He has also done so many things in Kogi State in the areas of security, women empowerment, youth inclusion, infrastructural development, and civil service reforms, among others,” he said. He added, “On the aspect of security, before he became Governor, Kogi State was faced with insecurity challenges such as kidnapping. But since he became Governor five years back, the state has witnessed peace and freedom from insurgencies. “Any man who ruled Kogi for one year can rule the nation. We believe he can do the job. We are in Kano to solicit their support because it has the largest number of delegates in the next Congress of the party.” Responding, the Speaker of the Kano Assembly, Chidari, agreed that Bello was equal to the task, and pledged his support for the Governor’s ambition. “They were here to intimate us about Governor Yahaya Bello’s intention to contest for presidency in 2023. Going by what they told us about him and the little we know about him, we know he is equal to the task. He can perform the task,” the Kano Speaker said. “We are all convinced that we will work for him to be the flag bearer of our party in 2023,” he added. 