 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Minister of State for Power, Mohammed Wakil, has been remanded in prison till March 31, 2021 on the order of a Federal Capital Territory High Court. The judgement was given following his alleged involvement in the mismanagement of N27 billion set aside for the payment of the retirement benefits of staff of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had arraigned him on a two-count charge bordering on corruption and abuse of office, on Monday, before Justice S.B.Belgore of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Apo, Abuja. The former minister was charged alongside two companies – Corozzeria Nigeria Limited and Pikat Properties Nigeria Limited – for allegedly receiving N148 million as gratification from Bestworth Insurance Brokers Limited, out of the N27.1 billion approved outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of PHCN. Count one of the charge read, “That you Muhammed Wakil, while being Minister of Power and Managing Director of Corozzeria Nigeria Limited, and Corozzeria Nigeria Limited, on or about 22nd December, 2014, in Abuja within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did corruptly receive the sum of N118 million through Corozzeria Nigeria Limited’s Polaris Bank Account No. 4010023658 from Bestworth Insurance Brokers Limited, out of the sum of N27.1 billion being the sum approved for the payment of outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of Power Holding Company of Nigeria( PHCN), and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 8(1)(a) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and punishable under Section 8(1)(b)(ii)of the same Act.” The defendant pleaded “not guilty” to the charges when they were read. Prosecution Counsel, Benjamin Manji, asked the court to set a date for commencement of trial and to remand the defendant at a Correctional Centre, pending trial. However counsel for the defendants, B.C Igwilo SAN, prayed the court to grant bail to the 1st defendant, a prayer that was opposed by the prosecution counsel. He urged the court to order the defendant to file the application formally. Justice Belgore however adjourned the matter till March 31, 2021 for determination of bail application and remanded the defendant in EFCC custody. 