 THE Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Lagos Command, has paraded a man, (name withheld) for allegedly dealing in illegal foreign Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) card business. The NSCDC, Lagos Commandant, Mr Paul Ayeni, while parading the suspect on Thursday in Lagos, said that the 35-year-old was caught on March 3, around 5pm at Computer Village, Lagos. The NSCDC boss said that the suspect was arrested by the Joint Task Force of Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and NSCDC, Lagos Command. The commandant said that the suspect was caught during surveillance patrol of “Operation Clamp Down on illegal Dealers of SIM cards” in Lagos State. He said that the suspect is a native of Owo, Ondo State. The Lagos NSCDC boss said that the suspect was caught dealing in different foreign SIM cards without formal licence and official registration with NCC. According to Ayeni, the action contravened Section 31 of the NCC Act, 2003, and Telecommunication Subscribers Registration Regulations (TSRR) Act, 2011. He said further that the case was under investigation to get other members of the syndicate and retrieve the unregistered foreign SIM cards in circulation. “The suspect will be charged to court soon once the investigation is concluded,” the commandant said. Elucidating the effects of the crime, the Lagos NSCDC boss said the act was a threat to national security. “This act also sabotages the government efforts in cyber crime and fraud as it facilitates the link in banditry and kidnapping as the numbers cannot be linked with National Identification Number (NIN),” the commandant said. The suspect, in an interview with newsmen, confessed to the allegations of selling foreign SIM cards without proper registration and licensing from NCC since February 2020. “I do buy foreign SIM card through different vendors. “The cost prices range from N4,000 to N7,000 and each sells for N10,000 depending on the country like United Kingdom and US,” the suspect said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that foreign SIM cards recovered included 46 Lycamobile; nine O2; three Gifgaff; and one H2O SIM card. 