 BY VICTORIA ONU, ABUJA DESPITE the rising inflation in the country, the Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria has retained interest rate at 11.5 per cent, following low consumer spending. The decision was announced on Tuesday by the apex bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, during the  278th meeting of the Committee, held in Abuja. The CBN retained its unconventional monetary policy despite the worsening inflation, which rose to 17.33 per cent in February 2021, from  the 16.43 per cent in January. The CBN had retained interest rate at 11.5 per cent following low consumer spending during the 277th meeting. In September 2020, the authorities unexpectedly cut the monetary policy rate by 100 basis points to 11.5 per cent from the previously held rate, which was 12.5 per cent. Emefiele noted that the inflationary pressures would moderate in the short to medium terms, following successful administration of COVID-19 vaccines. He said the committee was faced with tough decisions of moderating the rising inflation and stimulating output growth. Emefiele also said that the worsening insecurity situation in the country was responsible for the high inflation rate. The worsening economic situation drove Nigeria’s inflation to 17.33 per cent in February 2021 despite monetary intervention to contain the rates. The National Bureau of Statistics, while disclosing this, noted that the February increase was the 18th consecutive rise since September 2019. Over the past three months, Nigeria’s inflation had risen by 17.33 per cent, 16.47 per cent and 15.75 per cent. But speaking on the issues fuelling inflationary threat, Emefiele said that the insecurity in the country had affected the food producing region in the country, thus causing farmers to abandon their farms. Apart from the level of insecurity, he also said the increase in the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit, caused by the deregulation of the petroluem sector, as well as the devaluation of the Naira, had all compounded the inflation situation in the country. He said, “Worsening security situation has caused higher inflation which has affected the food producing areas and has limited the expected outcomes to the market. “The hike in PMS, upward adjustment in electricity tarrrif and naira depreciation also fueled inflationary pressures.” He said the committee urged the government to step up its security strategies in curbing the rising threat to the country’s security. However, he said the MPC expressed satisfaction on the bank’s intervention to boost food production through agricultural programmes. 