 BY REBECCA AJANI THERE were heavy gunshots at the Old Garage, Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Tuesday, when suspected thugs stormed the garage to attack members of a faction of the National Union of Road Transport Workers in the state. One person was reportedly killed in the chaos that ensued while two others were said to have sustained severe injuries. Recall that two members of one of the factions, identified as Omoniyi Oni, popularly called Eniba; and Wasiu Ibrahim had been attacked in Akure on Sunday by thugs said to be loyalists of the former leader of the union. They were said to have been attacked at a barbing salon around the Owode area of Akure. This prompted the national leaders of the Union to invite the warring factions to a meeting on Sunday. The factions were urged to allow those driven out of the garage to return for the sake of peace. But this, it was learnt, failed to calm frayed nerves, when the faction that was told to return to the garage gathered in the early hours. The other faction, it was gathered, also mobilised their members to the Old Garage, which resulted in the shoot-out that reportedly claimed one life. The slain victim was identified as Adebola Ademoyegun, aka China. His corpse was taken to the palace of the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, in protest, it was learnt. Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Tee Leo lkoro, confirmed the incident. “The presence of police is everywhere now. We are also investigating to know those masterminding this ugly incident and get them arrested. The leadership had been suspended. I don’t know what they are fighting for again,” he said. THE POINT had reported that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State banned the activities of the National Union of Road Transport Workers and Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria in the state. The unions were banned from collecting dues and levies from commercial drivers across all motor parks in the state. Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties and Strategy to the Governor, Doyin Odebowale, who disclosed this in Akure about a week ago, explained that the ban on the activities of the transport unions was as a result of the leadership tussle among the groups. 