 BY UMMU ABUBAKAR, ILORIN THE decision to re-open 10 shut schools in Ilorin, with the verdict that Muslim schoolgirls could wear their hijab to school, backfired on Wednesday, as this led to a clash between Muslims and Christians. Despite a statement by the state government, explaining why the students should be allowed to wear their hijab, Muslims wearing hijab were barred from entering Baptist School, Surulere, one of the schools that were shut. The refusal to allow the Muslim schoolgirls gain access to the school led to the clash, which occurred because Muslim and Christian organisations had reportedly drafted people to monitor activities in some of the affected schools. There was also a protest at C&S College, Sabo Oke, Ilorin, THE POINT learnt. Protesters reportedly prevented Muslim students from entering the school premises with their hijab. Muslims and Christians were seen throwing stones and other objects at each other until security agents calmed the situation. Some Christians displayed protest placards with inscriptions such as “No Hijab in Baptist Schools and all mission/grant-aided schools”, and “Otoge, give us back our schools”, among others. The schools were shut on February 19, 2021, following the controversy surrounding the wearing of hijab by Muslim female students in the grant-aided schools. While directing the reopening of the schools on Tuesday, the Kwara State Government had said peace building efforts would continue. Permanent Secretary in the state’s Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Mrs. Mary Adeosun, said, “The government is convinced that its policy to allow willing Muslim schoolgirls to wear their hijaab in public schools will lead to sustainable peace and communal harmony anchored on mutual respect and understanding. “This path to mutual respect, understanding, and peace with regard to hijaab had long been adopted in all of the northern Nigeria and many states in the South-West, such as Lagos, Osun, Ekiti, and Oyo States. “As the students resume normal classes, the government took special notice of the plight of those of them preparing for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination and hereby directs affected schools to hold at least two-hour extra lesson for all the intending candidates after school hours daily.” The state branch of the Christian Association of Nigeria had, however, said, “The body condemns the use of Hijab in Christian Missions Grant Aided Schools as this will cause discrimination in schools and allow terrorists to easily identify our children and wards.” 