 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Osun State Correspondent of The Point Newspaper, Timothy Agbor, has been elected Chairman of the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria in the state. Agbor, and other elected officers of the chapter, will pilot the affairs of the association for the next three years. The newly elected SWAN executives include Timothy Agbor, of the Point Newspaper (Chairman); Seun Omolola of the Osun State Broadcasting Corporation (Vice Chairman); Tajudeen Amodu, OSBC (Secretary); and Seyi Akanni, CodeSports (Treasurer). Other officers of the Union include Adedibu Babatunde of Crown FM (Financial Secretary); and Segun Fadoro of OSBC (Assistant Secretary). All the Executives were elected unopposed. Inaugurating the executives at the press centre of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), in Osogbo on Wednesday, the Vice President of the South-West zone of SWAN, Seun Ajayi, congratulated them and urged them to take the association to greater heights in Osun. Obe tasked them to carry members along in their activities and ensure that more members register with the association. Also speaking, the Chairman, Osun NUJ, Wasiu Ajadosu, described the new team as “comptetent hands” that would elevate the status and image of the association. The State government, through Ismail Omipidan, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Gboyega Oyetola, congratulated the Executives and assured that the government would do everything possible to support the association. Omipidan said the Government was passionate about Sports development in the state and that there was a need for collaboration between SWAN and the state government. The former South-West SWAN VP, Muideen Adeleke; and former Chairman of the Association, Yemi Aboderin, also charged the new executive to galvanise sports development and promotion in the state. Agbor, the new chairman, in his remarks, thanked leaders and members of SWAN for their support and promised that his team would serve the association efficiently and develop the sports sector in the state. “On behalf of my fellow executives, I want to express gratitude to God, leaders and members of Osun SWAN for giving us the opportunity to serve the association. We will do our best to develop the association and we need all stakeholders to support us to achieve these tasks,” he said.  