 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE SENATE President Ahmad Lawan has said drug barons are the ones funding the activities of terrorists in Nigeria. He said people had been wondering how the bandits acquired the kind of arms they had, noting that the barons were behind the acquisitions. The Senate President spoke in Abuja on Thursday, when the Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (retd) paid him a visit. While pledging that the Senate would support the agency in amending its act for greater efficiency, Lawan called for its restructuring to further empower it to tackle, successfully, criminal activities of drug traffickers operating in the country. He said, “The National Assembly members are almost on a daily interaction with our constituents and we know the very debilitating impact of drug abuse in our various communities. “You have rightly said almost every community in this country suffers from drug addiction. So, we are very mindful of what is happening. I believe this agency needs restructuring. Now that you have taken over, we should restructure the agency, not piece meal touches, because we need to get it right.” Lawan added, “My personal opinion is that NDLEA should be in the league of EFCC, ICPC, and, therefore, the kind of support that those two agencies receive, you should receive, in addition to many other things that you should be supported with. “So, the National Assembly will definitely work with you. We will partner with you, and ensure we do our best to give you the kind of support that will enable you to properly discharge your mandate.” He also noted that Nigeria was, in one way or the other, a transit route for drugs. He said, “Peddlers pass their drugs through Nigeria – cannabis, heroin and possibly even cocaine. We believe that this has to stop, because the proceeds of such activities fund terrorism, banditry; you wonder how the bandits have RPGs and these massive arms they have.. “Definitely, these are some acquisition provided by some barons, not the bandits themselves.  So, we need to ensure that this transit role that Nigerians play is addressed properly. “We have to approach this through multi-sectoral efforts; the Customs, Immigration Service, our Security Agencies, and in fact, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria and our seaports.” The Senate President agreed that the struggle would not be an easy one, but said the Federal Government must be steadfast and must do whatever was possible within the limited resources to make the NDLEA better. 