 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Federal Capital Territory High Court has remanded a former Director-General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, Benjamin Ezra Dikki, in Suleja Correctional Centre over an alleged bribe of N1billion. Head, Media and Publicity, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Wilson Uwujaren, said in a statement that Dikki and his company allegedly took the bribe in 2015, as gratification from Bestworth Insurance Brokers. He said it was allegedly given for the role he (ex-BPE DG) played in facilitating the approval of outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of the Power Holding Company of Nigeria. Uwujaren said, “Dikki who was docked alongside his company, Kebna Studios & Communications Limited, allegedly received about N1billion as gratification from Bestworth Insurance Brokers for his role in facilitating the approval of outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). “Count one of the charge reads, ‘That you Benjamin Ezra Dikki, while being the Director General of Bureau of Public Enterprise and also the Managing Director of Kebna Studios & Communications Limited, and Kebna Studios & Communications Limited, on or about 30th day of January, 2015, in Abuja, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did corruptly accept as reward, the sum of  N250million only through Kebna Studios & Communications Limited’s Skye Bank Account No.1771649525 from Bestworth Insurance Brokers Limited for your role in facilitating the approval of outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of Power Holding Company of Nigeria( PHCN), and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 17(1)(a) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences ACT, 2000 and punishable under Section (17)(c) of the same Act'”. The defendants pleaded “not guilty” when the charges were read to them. In view of their plea, the Prosecution Counsel, Benjamin Menji, asked the Court for a date to commence the trial and to remand the defendant at a Nigerian Correctional Service facility, the statement said. ”We shall be asking for a date to enable us assemble our witnesses and to prove the entire counts against the defendants and we shall urge the court to remand the first defendant in a Correctional facility pending commencement of his trial,” the Commission added. Counsel to the first defendant, Abdul Muhammed, however prayed the court to grant his client bail, citing Section 158, 162 and 163 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act. The prosecution counsel however opposed the oral bail application, saying that the defendants should file their applications formally to enable them respond accordingly. “We shall strongly be opposing the oral application, the reason being that we have facts that we want to place before this Honourable Court. And the only way to do that is by way of affidavit, why bail should not be granted. For this reason, they should come formally and we will bring all we have and place before this Court, so that the court can be able to look at it and sieve from what we are bringing,” he said. Justice Halilu adjourned the trial till March 3, 2021 for consideration of bail application and remanded the defendant in Suleja Correctional Centre. 