 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE ISLAMIC scholar, Sheikh Ahmed Gumi, has responded to a statement by the Nigerian Army, which cautioned him against comments that could create bad blood among Nigerians. He said he was not referring to the present day Army when he was speaking, noting that the issues had been misunderstood. Gumi said the issue he was referring to happened between 2010 and 2015, adding that a bomb was also planted for him during the crisis but that God saved him. The Army had earlier warned Gumi not to drag its image to disrepute with his controversial comments. It said while it would not want to join issues with the Sheikh, it was, however, important to restate that the Nigerian Army as a national institution “does not deploy its troops along ethnic or religious lines.” Gumi and “other opinion merchants” were cautioned in a statement signed by the Director of Public Relations of the Army, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Yerima. The statement was released following a recent comment by Gumi that armed bandits were being killed by non-Muslim soldiers, which had sparked outrage across the country. According to the Army, most operations it has conducted have been done in strict adherence to the rules of engagement, code of conduct and respect for fundamental human rights of all citizens without exception. The statement read, “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a viral video clip showing the renowned and respected Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, alleging that non-Muslim soldiers were responsible for the attacks against bandits. “Sheikh Ahmed Gumi and other opinion merchants are please enjoined to exercise restraint not to drag the image and reputation of one of the most reliable national institutions to disrepute. “The Nigerian Army remains the pride of the nation and has continually defended the territorial integrity of this great nation. “Comments suggesting to mudslide the image and reputation of the Nigerian Army are not only inimical but tended towards creating bad blood among Nigerians.” While speaking with BBC, however, Gumi said, “I saw the Army’s response. What I would say is that there is a misunderstanding of the issues. When I speak about the religious issue in the Army, I am not referring to today’s Army. “The issue is from 2010 to 2015 when some people were in charge and a lot of bad things happened.” “It is during that time that there were bombings everywhere. It happened in Jaji and we lost a popular Muslim general. Even, I was saved by God because they planted a bomb for me,” he stated. 