 ABISOYE JOHNSON GOVERNOR Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has again called out the administration of his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, for allegedly not giving the deserved priority to key projects in the state. He made particular reference to the Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road project, saying his administration was committed to its quick completion. Abiodun made his position known on the sidelines of the inspection of three key road projects, including Lafenwa-Ayetoro, Panseke-Adigbe-Opako and Oke-Lantoro-Elite-Idi Aba, in Abeokuta. According to the Governor, the Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road serves thousands of citizens traveling between Ayetoro and Abeokuta for commerce, school and work. “In my own opinion, this project should have been given more priority than it was given by the previous administration. We should have not come to meet this project in the state as we have met it,” Abiodun said. His position on the state of the roads may spark yet another controversy between supporters of Amosun and the present government, at a time the different positions of the Abiodun administration and the previous administration on the setting up of either a Cargo or Passenger airport have degenerated into a public face-off. Though Governor Abiodun said the roads had direct socio-economic benefits on the residents of the state, one credit that had been given to the Amosun administration is the upgrade of the state’s infrastructure. Abiodun, however, promised that more funds would be allocated to the ongoing construction of the 53km Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road to ensure its timely completion. “We are committed to the quick completion of  Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road, because it accounts for thousands of our citizens that are traveling between Ayetoro and Abeokuta for commerce, school and work,” he said. He added, “I have seen that there are areas and pockets of parts of this project that require immediate attention, particularly, the part and area towards Lafenwa market, which is extremely deplorable. “I have consequently instructed the contractor to move to that part of this project and immediately make it motorable, so that it can bring the needed relief to the travelling passengers going from Abeokuta to Ayetoro.” The Governor further said the three kilometre Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road would be extended by one and half kilometers to solve the perennial flooding and submerging of Opako Culvert. The extension, he added, was also to ease vehicular movement between Obafemi Owode and Abeokuta South Local Government Areas. “The contractor has assured us that this project will be finished second week of May. We will be back here, we are going to hold the contractor to his words,” Abiodun noted. “He says May 20. That date is just about another month and a half away and we will all come back here to witness that indeed the road is completed,” he added. 