 REBECCA AJANI THE Oyo State Police Command says it has commenced discreet investigation into the activities of Fulani herdsman, Iskilu Wakili, who allegedly masterminded kidnappings and killings of innocent people in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State. Wakili had earlier been arrested, along with two other persons, and subsequently transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Iyaganku, Ibadan, the state capital. The Command urged members of the public with corroborating evidences against the suspects to come forward, saying this would go a long way in ensuring that watertight evidence was established for the purpose of diligent prosecution. The Police, however, dismissed claims in some quarters that anyone who showed up at the police station to give evidence would be arrested, and that some people had also been told to pay money before they were granted bail. These were contained in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, CSP Gbenga Fadeyi. He said, “Sequel to the arrest of Iskilu Wakili and two other persons, and subsequent transfer to State Criminal Investigation Department, CID, Iyaganku, Ibadan, discreet investigation on the suspects has commenced. “Consequent upon this, seasoned detectives have since commenced investigating Wakili and his suspected accomplices. “The Command wishes to invite members of the public who have corroborating evidences against them to appear. This will go a long way in ensuring that watertight evidence is established for the purpose of diligent prosecution.” Fadeyi added, “The Commissioner of Police wishes to refute the allegation of detaining complainants who reported any case against the Fulani herdsmen at the Police Station in Ibarapa axis and equally taking money from them before granting them bail. “This assertion is unfounded and baseless. While assuring that diligent investigation and prosecution will be taken into consideration at all times, the CP wishes to strongly discourage the propagation of unverified and misleading news, by persons or groups of persons as this is counterproductive to feats achieved by the police through diligence and dedication in the pursuit of justice.” 