 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO PANIC has gripped residents of Kolawole, Alie and Obalende Areas, in Osogbo, Osun State, after some suspected cultists killed three persons during a clash. This came exactly a week after a yet-to-be identified man was gunned down by some suspected cult members at Ita-Olookan area of Osogbo. On Sunday, no fewer than three people were shot dead in the fresh cult clash that ensued around 8am. It was gathered that the clash was between Aiye and Eiye confraternities. An eye witness, who lives around Kolawole, told THE POINT’s correspondent that the cultists engaged in violent attacks on one another with guns and cutlasses. It was gathered that some of the victims were shot while others were macheted to death. Residents of the area were said to have scampered for safety as the cultists shot sporadically while chasing one another around. It was gathered that in the process, three cultists were killed at Kolawole, Alie and Obalende areas. Some residents of the affected areas who spoke under intense panic said the corpses were later evacuated by the police to an undisclosed morgue in Osogbo. Meanwhile, some residents of Osogbo have lamented the spate of cult clashes and hooliganism in the state. Speaking under the condition of anonymity, a community leader at Kolawole area said cultists operated “freely”, arguing that “Osogbo has not had it this bad.” He said, “We are living in fear during the day and at night. Cultists, hooligans and thugs have taken over Osogbo. They smoke hard drugs and drink hard substances, after which they attack one another and, in the process, put innocent citizens at risk. “It is so bad that even the Police now find it hard to tame them. You can hardly get them arrested because they now seem immuned against arrest said they are into agreement with the Police.” “We appeal to our State Governor and security agents to come to our aid and root out these killers among us,” he pleaded. The Police Public Relations Officer in the State, Mrs Yemisi Opalola, did not answer telephone calls put across to her.  