 FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control has destroyed counterfeit drugs and vaccines, cosmetics, and expired food items worth over N2 billion. The destruction exercise took place in Kano and Awka, Anambra State, in line with the agency’s determination to eradicate fake drugs in the country. The operatives of the Agency had launched an operation to mop up expired drugs and unwholesome food products from the North West, South East and South-South geo-political zones. In this regard, counterfeit drugs and spurious food products worth over N1.4billion were seized from the South East and South-South zones and destroyed in Awka, Anambra state on Thursday. Similar dangerous drugs and unwholesome food items worth N613million were destroyed at the Kalebawa dumpsite along Kazaure-Daura road, Dambatta, in Kano. Director-General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, who confirmed this, said, henceforth, there would be no hiding place for those described as merchants of death who derive joy in the unpatriotic act of circulating expired, falsified drugs and food products. She said the destruction was part of the efforts to rid the Nigerian market of unwholesome products and engender public confidence. Represented by the Director of Investigation and Enforcement in the Agency, Kingsley Ejiofor, she said that the fake products were seized by the operatives of the Agency during various operations in the zones. According to her, other operatives of the Agency are all over the country sniffing around to apprehend others who are still in the deadly business. ‘’The estimated value of the products destroyed in Kano is N613,300,290.00 while fake products worth N1, 429,580,683.00 were destroyed in Awka, Anambra State, totalling N2,042,880,973.00,” she noted. The products include drugs such as antibiotics, antihypertensive, antimalarial, herbal remedies, and psychoactive, controlled substance. ‘’Food products such as spaghetti, vegetable oil, non-alcoholic beverages, sachet water, Chocolates, Noodles, etc. were also destroyed as well as cosmetics such as creams, pomade, and insecticides,” the DG said.