 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE ATTORNEY-GENERAL of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has taken over the case of a former Governor of Imo State, Ikedi Ohakim, who is facing trial for allegedly threatening to release a nude photograph of an Abuja-based woman, Mrs Chinyere Amuchienwa. This is sequel to a letter by the AGF to the the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on March 17, 2021, asking the Police to hands-off the case. The AGF, through Bagudu Sani, a lawyer in his office, told the court, at the resumed hearing at the Federal High Court in Abuja, that he took over the case from the IGP, in order to ensure diligent prosecution. However, Counsel to the Police, Rufus Dimka, opposed the transfer of the case to the AGF’s office, noting that the charge was filed by the IGP. Trial Justice Taiwo Taiwo ordered Sani to formally file the letter before the court and also serve all parties. Justice Taiwo directed the parties to file and exchange their written addresses before the adjourned date. The case was subsequently adjourned till May 6 for the parties to address the court on the propriety of the office of the AGF taking over the case and for the arraignment of the defendants. The Police had disclosed that it filed an application for leave of the court to withdraw the charge against the defendants. In the charge marked ‘FHC/ABJ/CS/287/2020’, the Police had named the former governor and one Chinedu Okpareke as defendants. The defendants were alleged to have threatened to release a nude photograph of Amuchienwa if she failed to drop charges of attempted kidnap against them. The Police alleged, in the five-count charge, dated November 25, 2020, that Ohakim and Okpareke, “knowingly and intentionally transmitted communication through a computer system to harass and bully Amuchienwa, an offence that is punishable under Section 24(1)(a) of the Cybercrime Act 2015.” Some charges against them read, ”That you Chinendu Okpareke ‘m’ 49, and Ikedi Ohakim ‘m’ and others now at large on Aug. 13, 2020 within the jurisdiction of this court did conspire among yourselves by knowingly and intentionally sending messages by means of computer system or network in a grossly offensive, pornographic, nude of an indecent, obscene and menacing character of one Chinyere Amuchienwa ‘f’ and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 27 (1)(a) of the Cybercrime Act 2015. ”That you Chinendu Okpareke ‘m’ 49, and Ikedi Ohakim ‘m’ and others now at large on Aug. 13, 2020, within the jurisdiction of this court did conspire among yourselves to cause annoyance and criminal intimidation to one Chinyere Amuchienwa ‘f’ and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 27 (1)(a) of the Cybercrime Act 2015.” The former governor has, however, been on police administrative bail since November 11, 2020. 