 TIMOTHY AGBOR NO fewer than 8,000 conflicts between Fulani/Bororo herdsmen and farmers in Osun State have been peacefully resolved. This was disclosed by the Chairman, Osun State Committee on Peaceful Co-existence between Fulani/Bororo and Farmers in the state, Mudasiru Oguntola Toogun, on Monday. Toogun, while speaking on a radio programme monitored by our correspondent in Osogbo, said the rifts could have degenerated into loss of lives and property if not properly handled in time. He said complaints from some quarters, especially farmers, were brought before the committee since it was inaugurated in 2014 and that over 8,000 issues and clashes involving herdsmen and farmers had been settled amicably. He said residents of the state should continue to report cases of incursion and trespass to farmlands to the committee, adding that they should not take laws into their hands. According to Toogun, experiences of the committee revealed that the violent herdsmen are not Nigerians but foreigners. To nip this, he revealed that the Osun State Government would soon conduct a census for herdsmen across the state and issue identity cards to them. He tasked security agencies to be up to the task in order to prevent the incursion of foreign hersdmen into the state. For Toogun, none of the Southwestern states needs Rural Grazing Area (RUGA). States like Niger and Kogi need to implement the cow settlement because they are closer to the North, according to him. He said, “Part of our achievements is that we have been able to resolve over 8,000 conflicts arising from farmers-herders in Osun State. This is why Osun is enjoying peace. “The problems we face are not caused by Fulani/Bororo that are already with us in Osun but foreigners. This is why we want to embark on census of all Fulani herdsmen and Bororo in the state and give them Identity Cards.” He added, “Anyone that is not with these cards would have to be questioned and once we know the person’s mission, we will know what to do with such person. “I want to urge our people to continue to cooperate with our committee and security agencies by reporting suspected criminals on time.” “We urge all Osun citizens to continue to live in peace with everyone. If there is any conflict or suspicion, they can call me (Toogun) to report,” the Chairman noted. 