 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A medical doctor, Olajumoke Tokunbo, has been dragged before a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo, Osun State, for allegedly stealing a digital metre belonging to Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company. Doctor Tokunbo, aged 46, was arraigned by the Police in the state alongside a 26-year-old hospital staff, Oyinlola Oluwatosin. Police prosecutor, Sergeant Adeoye Kayode, told the court on Thursday that the accused persons committed the offence on January 27 and March 9, 2021 at Ogo-Oluwa area, Osogbo. Adeoye said that the accused persons did conspire to steal a Digital meter No.14313649, valued at N250,000. The metre was said to have been installed to capture the exact electric power consumption by Crystal Hospital, where the doctor works. He furthered alleged that Olajumoke Tokunbo did assault some staff of Osogbo IBEDC while on their lawful duty by blocking them with his car. The allegedly assaulted staff included Paul Taiwo Ishola, Kehinde Fashakin and Ibrahim Lawal. The Prosecutor further alleged that Tokunbo threw away the IBEDC leader and other accoutrements belonging to the company before men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) were later deployed to the scene to rescue them. Adeoye also told the court that the accused persons did claim that the meter was stolen but they failed to report the incident to the police and IBEDC who issued the meter to them. He noted that the offences committed by the accused persons were contrary to Section 516,335,388,249,86(1&2) and 127 and punishable under Section 390 and 250 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol ll Law of Osun State 2002. However, the accused persons pleaded not guilty to the six-count charge slammed against them. Defence Counsel, Sunday Abolade, applied for the bail of the accused persons in the most liberal term. In his ruling, Magistrate A A Adeyeba granted the accused persons bail in the sum of N500,000 with one surety in like sum. He, thereafter, adjourned the matter till April 14 for hearing. 