 BY UMMU ABUBAKAR, ILORIN KWARA State Government has directed the reopening of 10 grant-aided mission secondary schools, shut down over the ‘hijab’ controversy in the state. According to the state government, the reopening takes effect from Wednesday, March 17, 2021, while peace building efforts continue. Permanent Secretary in the state’s Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Mrs. Mary Adeosun, who disclosed this, said, “The government is convinced that its policy to allow willing Muslim schoolgirls to wear their hijaab in public schools will lead to sustainable peace and communal harmony anchored on mutual respect and understanding. “This path to mutual respect, understanding, and peace with regard to hijaab had long been adopted in all of the northern Nigeria and many states in the South-West, such as Lagos, Osun, Ekiti, and Oyo States. “As the students resume normal classes, the government took special notice of the plight of those of them preparing for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination and hereby directs affected schools to hold at least two-hour extra lesson for all the intending candidates after school hours daily.” According to her, the government will provide light lunch for the students until the beginning of their exams while teachers allotted for the extra coaching will get stipends for their efforts. The Commissioner said this was to bring the students up to speed, ahead of the impending external examination. She stated, “The closure of the schools was necessary to forestall security breaches which may affect lives and properties. “The government sincerely commends the Christian and Muslim leaders for their understanding and their efforts to build peace within their respective communities in the past weeks. “It urges everyone to join hands with the government to raise a generation of schoolchildren who will respect one another’s differences and together build a sustainable future for our state.” “Finally, the government reminds all its employees such as school principals and teachers in the affected schools to take special note of the policy. There will be zero tolerance for violations of anyone’s fundamental human rights under their watch,” she added. 