 … settles rift with Bauchi Gov BY BIMPE ADEYEMI THE media face-off between Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and his counterpart in Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, over the worsening insecurity in the Northern and other regions, may have come to an end, according to the Benue Governor. Both governors, according to Ortom, decided to sheath their swords and strategise on better ways of resolving the issues in order not to further exacerbate the already tensed atmosphere in the country. The governor disclosed this just as he said that what would happen in 2023 was dependent on how the issue of insecurity is addressed. “If we do not work together to ensure security in our country, there may be no Nigeria tomorrow and the projection of contesting election may not even come at all,” he said. Ortom and Mohammed had been at loggerheads over opposing comments made on the issue of herdsmen crisis, especially the Bauchi Governor’s defence for herdsmen carrying AK-47. While the Bauchi governor accused Ortom of fuelling the crisis with his comments, the latter also accused Mohammed of being one of the terrorists terrorising Nigerians, THE POINT reports. Ortom announced their decision to embrace peace on Wednesday, in Makurdi, shortly after he arrived from the Port Harcourt peace meeting organised by the Governors of Rivers and Adamawa states. He said, “We had to discuss, looking at the interest of our party and for the sake of our country Nigeria, we decided to sheath our sword in other to find better ways of relating with each other. That should be the take home. “So we are more focused on the deteriorating security situation in the country. We need to partner with the Federal Government in that regard. And as Governors, we need to work together as a team to ensure security for our people. “As at today you can see that the entire security architecture of the country has completely collapsed. There is the urgent need to set political party aside, ethnicity and religion aside and work to ensure that all hands are on deck to provide security for our people.” He added, “We know that without security, there will be no meaningful development in the country. So, whatever it will take to make sacrifices, including bringing down our ego to allow peace reign, it has to be done. “As for 2023, we know that politicians will always project into five to 10 years programmes and all that, but if we do not work together to ensure security in our country, there may be no Nigeria tomorrow and the projection of contesting election may not even come at all.” Ortom noted that once the provisions of the Nigerian constitution were respected, there would be equity, fairness and justice, and things would work out well. “For now that is what is lacking and that is why we have continued to have these problems. Everything between myself and Governor Bala Mohammed has been resolved. We are friends and we have been friends all this while. There was no need for the outburst that happened,” he stated. “We have resolved to look for better ways of handling such issues. You know that experience is the better teacher, so if next time, a thing of that nature happens, we will not jump to the press, we will find better ways of resolving it instead of shouting and raising concerns, especially at this critical time in the history of our country that we are having challenges,” the Governor added. 