 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO FOLLOWING the insecurity situation in some parts of Osun State, the state Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, has met with the leadership of security agencies in the state. There had been incidents of criminal activities, including kidnapping, killings, gangsterism, cultism, and communal clashes among others. The state government has therefore mapped out security mechanisms to checkmate these criminal activities with the help of security agencies. At the State Security Council meeting, held on Monday at the Government House, Oke-Fia, Osogbo, Oyetola, who chaired it, listened to heads of security agencies as they explained efforts at curbing the menace. A statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Yemisi Opalola, on Tuesday, disclosed that the governor appreciated the efforts of the security agencies and promised to assist in providing a better working environment to enable the officers put in their maximum effort. The statement said, “Security issues affecting the state were discussed and solutions towards addressing them were fathomed. Among issues discussed are: Infiltration into the states of herdsmen/bandits/kidnappers artisanal miners, thuggery and cultism, communal clashes, armed robbery, proliferation of arms and ammunitions, increased cases of accident, labour union crisis, school protection etc. “Consequent upon this, the Police as the lead agency in internal security and all other heads of security agencies have mapped out security mechanisms to checkmate the above criminal activities in the state. “The Commissioner of Police therefore, urged the good citizens of the state to support, collaborate and cooperate with the state government, the Police and other security agencies in making the state secured to live and go about their lawful businesses without fear of insecurity.” Others present at the meeting include: the Deputy Governor of the State, Benedict Olugboyega Alabi; Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, some executive cabinet members, Special Advisers and all Service Commanders attached to the State which include the Police, Army, Air Force, DSS, Immigration, Correctional Service, NDLEA and NSCDC. 