 … says ‘It’ll be unfair of me if I continue to keep quiet at this time’
BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE HANNAH Nworgu, a family associate of Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, has described the allegations against the former minister as lies. She said she decided to speak up to free herself from the bondage of “conspiratorial silence” in the face of accusations and counter-accusations flying from both FFK and Precious. The family associate, who said she had once lived with the couple, noted that, contrary to the estranged wife’s allegation, the former minister took care of his mother-in-law up to the point of her death. Precious had dragged the Peoples Democratic Party chieftain before the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, seeking, among others, the custody of the four children produced by the marriage. She was however willing to consider “reasonable right of access to the respondent.” She asked the court to also restrain Fani-Kayode and his agents from “forcibly abducting” the children from her custody. She is praying the court to order the former minister to pay a monthly allowance of N3.438million to her for the upkeep of the children, aside from funds for their educational needs and other ancillary expenses. She specifically said Femi Fani-Kayode “at the slightest provocation, abuses, beats and assaults me, my late mother and my siblings when they visited. As we progressed in the relationship, the beatings became so severe that on many occasions, I feared for my life.” However, Nworgu said, “It will be unfair of me if I continue to keep quiet at this time. My conscience will not allow me to rest. “It is an opportunity for me to free myself from the bondage of conspiratorial silence in the face of accusations and counter-accusations flying from both FFK and Precious. “I would have maintained my silence but for the part in Precious’ claim that (FFK) at the slightest provocation, abuses, beats and assaults me, my late mother and my siblings when they visited. “This is a lie from the pit of hell because Precious’ mother (may her gentle soul rest in peace) suffered from cancer and spent her last few months on earth in FFK’s house from where FFK spent fortunes taking care of her and running around for her, from one specialist to another until she succumbed to the illness. “Even after her death, it was still FFK who practically carried the burden of the burial including the financial burden and still travelled to the South East with Precious’s family for the burial. “So how come Precious is now turning around to claim that FFK used to beat that same woman? If that was so, why didn’t Precious raise the allegation before her kinsmen then especially when he was in the mother’s hometown in Umuahia for the burial? “After the burial, Precious’s family and kinsmen were grateful to FFK. The pictures are still there all over the internet. Did they look like the picture of the burial of a woman usually beaten by his son-in-law before she died? “I am speaking at this point because I feel it is abhorrent for Precious to use her mother to sell such lies just to score cheap points against a man who was good to her family almost all of whom were living in FFK’s house then. “This is unfair and I hope there’ll be a way of correcting such an impression, if for nothing else, at least for the sake of the good memory of Precious’s late mother.” 