 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Central Bank of Nigeria has released 50,000 metric tonnes of Maize into the Nigerian market. The Bank’s February 2021 release of Maize, in fulfilment of its pledge to reduce the price of the commodity, was done through the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to major poultry feed producers and poultry producers in the country. The CBN-facilitated release of the 50,000 metric tonnes of Maize in the second week of February, has made an impact, as the Maize Market has recorded a reduction in price from N200,000 per metric tonne to about N180,000 per metric tonne. It is still anticipated that the current price will further reduce. Major beneficiaries of the February release include: Premier Flour Mills, Crown – Olam, Grand Cereals, Animal Care, Amobyn and Hybrid Feeds. Others are Zartech, Wacot, Sayeed Farms, Pandagri Novum and Premium Farms, including the South West, South South, North West and North Central chapters of the Poultry Association of Nigeria. A statement on Wednesday said the benefiting companies represented the major players in the poultry value chain in the country. The release of the 50,000 metric tonnes of Maize halts the pressure and reduces the activities of intermediaries (middlemen) in the Nigerian Maize market. Recall that the CBN had in January this year, announced the release of 300,000 metric tonnes of Maize into the Nigerian Maize Market. This is to bridge the shortfall in production and augment local production of the commodity. The current shortfall in the quantity of maize available in the market, that CBN is working on mitigating, is attributed to activities of banditry, drought in some parts of the country last year, activities of hoarders and middlemen as well as insecurity around the major maize producing belt of Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and part of Kano states. As part of the Bank’s financing framework, the CBN facilitates the funding of maize farmers and processors through the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, Commodity Association, Private/Prime Anchors, State Governments, Maize Aggregation Scheme (MAS), and the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme (CACS). 