 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO The Osun State Government has revealed the names and other identities of officers of the Join Task Force that allegedly killed a 17-year-old boy, Idris Ajibola, in the state last year. The government, through the Criminal Investigation Department of the Osun State Police Command, decided to make the names of the alleged killer officers public for proper disciplinary actions in their respective Commands. The officers are Ejigbo Audu (Nigeria Police Force); Benjamin Ogunsesan (Nigeria Police Force); Jekayinfa Olutosin (Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps); Raji Adewale (State Security Service) and Hammed Yusuf (Nigeria Air Force). The late Idris Ajibola, alongside his friends, were, on September 15, 2020, allegedly chased by the officers, leading to the subsequent death of the deceased. The parents of the deceased had sought for the payment of N5billion as compensation. Presenting his final written address on the case at the resumed hearing of the Osun Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Police Brutality Human Rights Violations and Related Extra Judicial Killings, on Thursday, the petitioners’ counsel, Kanmi Ajibola, argued that the alleged unlawful act perpetrated by the subjects of the Respondent by chasing the boy to death, causing his parents an irreparable loss, was contrary to Paragraph 33 (1) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended. According to him, the said Paragraph of the Constitution provides that: “Every person has a right to life, and no one shall be deprived intentionally of his life, save in execution of the sentence of a court in respect of a criminal offence of which he has been found guilty in Nigeria.” He submitted that his clients were entitled to compensation as enshrined in Section 35 (6) of the 1999 Constitution, which stipulates that: “Any person who is unlawfully arrested or detained shall be entitled to compensation and public apology from the appropriate authority or person.” Ajibola, who described the steps taken by the government to unveil the identity of the occupants of the JTF vehicle that allegedly chased the deceased to death as commendable, said the action had further informed the petitioners on the need to pursue the case to finality by ensuring that “whoever is found culpable is dealt with in accordance with the Constitution.” He commended the Government for not covering up the matter after the names of the officers were made known by the Criminal Investigation Department of the Nigeria Police Force assigned to investigate the matter. The report stated, “A copy of the police investigation report forwarded by the government indicated that the incident that claimed the life of one Idris Ajibola (male), 17 years old,  among the four occupants of the Toyota Corolla Saloon vehicle with number ABUJA KUJ 553 LY, was assigned to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Nigeria Police Force, Osogbo for discreet investigation and report. “Consequent upon the investigation, the following: Ejigbo Audu (NPF); Benjamin Ogunsesan (NPF); Jekayinfa Olutosin (NSCDC); Raji Adewale (SSS); and Hammed Yusuf (NAF), who occupied the JTF patrol team 004 surveillance patrol vehicle on the fateful day of the accident, 15th September, 2020, have been recommended for withdrawal from the Joint Task Force (JTF) and to face departmental disciplinary action in their various commands.” The panel, led by its Chairman, Justice Akin Oladimeji (retd), adopted the final written address forwarded by the petitioners’ counsel for recommendation to the government for appropriate compensation. Meanwhile, the parents of the deceased have lauded the state Government for endorsing the report and revealing the alleged killer officers. Addressing journalists after the closure of their cases, mother of the deceased, Mrs. Titilayo Ajibola, said the unveiling of the identities of the alleged erring officers was an indication of the fact that their case before the panel was genuine. The petitioner who was accompanied by her husband and other members of the family said the request for the sum of N5billion compensation was to cushion the trauma experienced from the incident as the deceased was the only male child of the family. 