 Linus Chibuike NATIONAL Chairman of the African Democratic Congress, Ralphs Nwosu, has congratulated the newly decorated acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba. He advised him to be careful not to tarnish his reputation as a respected officer in this present assignment and wished him the very best in office. Nwosu, who spoke in a statement he personally signed on Wednesday, also lamented the worsening insurgency in the country, wondering how much the new IGP could do to stem the tide. He maintained that corruption and toxicity within the entire government’s ecosystem would make it impossible for anyone to perform. The ADC Chairman said, “The policy inconsistency and lack of political will on the part of the Federal Government is the big challenge. “The inability of the government of APC to arrest the marauding elephant that is causing the dissonance in the security architecture across board, and in the entire nation is the issue.” According to him, Nigeria is a diverse country and incumbents must be mindful to apply diversity principles in the leadership of the country. “The APC government of President Buhari has divided the country severely and this affects the morale of officers, as well as their mental frame. As such, the disfunctionality that has been caused cannot be reversed with the same national leadership in place,” he maintained. He said what was beginning to look like insurrection in the country was an internal revolt within the entire policing, intelligence and military establishments, which he said was well orchestrated and deep within the hierarchy. “This country has never had it so bad. The kind of ineptitude and clanishness in politics and public service can only portend evil,” he said. He urged the new Inspector General of Police to brace for the moment and “embrace alternate ways to peace building instead of the ill-strategy of operation fire for fire and SARS era of shoot at sight recently backed by the Buhari regime.” “We are concerned. What is happening across Nigeria is not citizens revolt but inside the top hierarchy of the established institutions. We do not expect any miracle from measured changes in personnel. Let’s continue to pray for our dear country,” Nwosu said.  