 REBECCA AJANI ONDO State government has raised the alarm that those it described as disgruntled losers are plotting to blackmail and discredit the Governor Rotimi Akeredolu-led government, using cloned or fabricated documents as weapons. A few of such fake documents have allegedly been fraudulently procured and sent to selected media houses, the Ondo Government claimed. The government raised the alarm in a statement by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, in Akure. Ojogo said the motive of those behind the heinous plot was to distract the administration as it commenced the aggregation of its modest achievements within the first 100 days of the Governor’s second term. The statement, titled, ‘Disgruntled Losers Out To Blackmail Ondo Government’, however, insisted that the Akeredolu government was committed to integrity, transparency and accountability. Explaining the strategy being adopted by the alleged plotters, the statement said, “This method includes the cloning of official documents, outright fabrication of fictitious documents and concoction of imaginary data and perceived details and linking same to the Governor, his immediate family and a few government officials. “Already, a few of such fake documents have been fraudulently procured and sent to selected media houses in line with the intention of the sponsors of this devious act. “For the records, the Akeredolu-led administration stands on the tripod of integrity, transparency and accountability. “These inspiring watchwords have provided the needed confidence and vigour for the government to thrive on the path of the modest efforts in the last four years plus. “These virtues were indeed, the reasons sponsors of such plots could not find any incriminating transactions against the Government in the build-up to the last elections inspite of strenuous efforts in that regard. “For Governor Akeredolu, he has moved on since the election and remains the pilot of the Ondo State Project for the benefit of all without discrimination. Elections, the intrigues as well as the activities of players remain confined to the past, he believes. “While Government remains unperturbed by the last kicks of disgruntled losers who voluntarily cleared paths of personal political destinies for themselves, it finds it expedient to raise the alarm as regards the intended act.” 