 BANYO TEMITAYO AS part of measures to curb road crashes, Dangote Cement Plc has launched a Drivers’ Training Centre located at the Dangote Cement Plant, Obajana, Kogi State. The new centre is charged with the responsibility of attending to all training needs of Dangote Cement Plc’s drivers. The new centre, according to a statement by the company, convocated its first graduates of 50 Trainee Drivers at the weekend. Speaking to newsmen on the sidelines of the convocation at Obajana, Head of the Dangote Drivers Training Centre, Harisson Pepple, said the training was in line with the company’s Zero Tolerance Policy for auto crashes. Pepple said the Trainee Drivers were drawn from the existing Motor Boys, and that the training period is for six months. He expressed optimism that the “days of crashes involving Dangote trucks are numbered”. “The Trainee Drivers Programme is all encompassing. The first twelve weeks is theoretical. Then there is three months attachment,” he said. He added that the idea for the new Drivers Training Centre was conceived in June 2020, with the aim of training, retraining and constantly engaging the Dangote drivers. He also announced that the company was engaging another set of qualified drivers with Class G licences, stressing that the company was doing everything possible to rid itself of crashes. According to him, the company is collaborating with the Federal Road Safety Corps in most of its activities. He said the Trainee Drivers were also taught Defensive Driving Techniques, which involved driving to save lives, time and property. Pepple recalled that Dangote Group had been taking stringent measures to minimise auto crashes, and that the new training centre was a continuation of its innovative efforts. Some of the efforts by the Dangote Cement Plc to curb crashes, according to the statement, include: recertification of drivers, pre-trip and post-trip inspections, drug test, Onboard Camera and tracking of vehicles, Root Cause Analysis, engaging behavioural psychologists and Clerics, convoy movement, checkpoint policy and sanctions, among several others.  