 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE OPERATIVES of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency have arrested a 300-Level undergraduate, Rhoda Agboje, and her boyfriend, Ifeanyi Nwankwo, for allegedly producing and selling drugged cookies to school children in Abuja. The lady was said to have been first arrested at the NNPC Cooperative Estate, opposite Gaduwa Estate in Abuja, based on a complaint that she gave an unsuspecting young girl the cookies to eat. Her confession during interrogation reportedly led to the search of her boyfriend’s house, where over 200 pieces of the drug cookies were recovered. The cookies are made with Arizona, a highly psychoactive variant of cannabis, alcohol and rohypnol, among other ingredients. Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA Headquarters, Abuja, Femi Babafemi, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. He said the suspects had also been selling to other unsuspecting members of the public, adding that narcotic agents with the Federal Capital Territory Command of the NDLEA had launched a manhunt for another member of the syndicate involved in producing the cookies. Babafemi said, “Their lid was blown open following the arrest of Rhoda Agboje with four pieces of the drug cookies on Sunday, 18th April, 2021. She was arrested at the NNPC Cooperative Estate, opposite Gaduwa estate in Abuja based on a complaint that she gave an unsuspecting young girl the cookies to eat. “After eating the drug cookies, the girl lost her mind and could not sleep, making incoherent utterances due to the effects of the cookies. ‘’Under interrogation, the prime suspect, Rhoda confessed she prepares the cookies with a friend and sells each pack of three pieces at N1, 500. A follow up operation in her boyfriend’s house led to the recovery of over 200 pieces of the drug cookies.” The statement also quoted the Commander, FCT Command of the NDLEA, Mohammed Malami Sokoto, as saying, “The boyfriend, Ifeanyi Nwankwo, and all the equipment used for the production of the cookies were brought to the office for further investigation. “The suspect confirmed that she sells at parties and to unsuspecting members of the public, including school children that are the most vulnerable. The suspect also supplies some supermarkets and clubs in the FCT.” 