 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO GOVERNOR Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State and the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye, have commiserated with former Speaker of the State Assembly, Najeem Salaam, over the death of his wife, Mrs. Adebimpe Aduke Salaam. The bereaved former speaker had announced the death of his wife on his Facebook page on Monday. The Governor’s condolence message was contained in a statement released by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, in Osogbo. Oyetola said he received news of the demise of Mrs Adebimpe with rude shock and sadness, saying that his thoughts and prayers were with Hon. Salaam and his entire family at this moment of grief. He urged them to take solace in the quality of life the departed lived, adding that “death is a price we will all pay.” The governor prayed Almighty Allah to overlook the shortcomings of the deceased and grant her a place in Aljanah Firdaus while also praying for divine comfort for the bereaved family. Also, Owoeye described Mrs. Salam’s death as shocking and a great loss to the Asaremonika family, Ejigbo and Osun State at large. The Speaker, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Alabi, to commiserate with the ex-Speaker, admonished him to take heart over the loss. Owoeye held that the death of one of the pillars of support of the former Speaker of the Assembly had shown the greatness of God Almighty who had ultimate control over life and death. He stated, “The death of Madam Adebimpe Aduke is a big loss to many especially Ara, a community in Egbedoore local government, Asaremonika family in Ejigbo, Osun in general and Nigeria. My heart felt condolences at this point goes to the children and close associates of late Madam Adebimpe. “I received the news of the death of Salaam with shock but with submission to the will of Almighty Allah which can not be questioned by mortals. I am still in shock because this is coming at a point when my predecessor just moved into Abuja for a new state assignment. “This is a sad moment for RT. Hon Salaam. I share in your grief. We should however be grateful to Allah that she led an impactful life. “I commiserate with her immediate family, the children left behind. I pray that God will grant them the fortitude to bear the loss.”  