 BY RIMI ALIU MEMBER representing Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency of Plateau State in the House of Representatives, Haruna Maitala, who died in a motor accident on Friday, was buried on Saturday at Dadin Kowa cemetery, amid tears, at about 2.15pm. The lawmaker had died in the fatal crash, along the Abuja-Jos Road, along with his son and aides, on his way to Jos for his first son’s wedding, THE POINT learnt. Officially announcing the demise of the lawmaker, on Saturday, his Media Consultant, Joseph Adudu, said, “This is to announce the death of Honourable Haruna Maitala, which occurred yesterday, 2nd April, 2021, as a result of a fatal car accident on his way to Jos from Abuja. “Until his death, Haruna Maitala was the member representing Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency in the National Assembly. He will be buried this morning (Saturday) according to Islamic rites. “May God forgive his sins and grant him Aljanna fidaus.” Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase, in a condolence message, released by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, described late Maitala as a hardworking, dedicated and honest politician who died when his services were needed the most. He said, “I am deeply saddened as I join the people of Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency and the entire Plateau State to mourn the loss of our brother and colleague, Hon. Haruna Maitala. “We have lost one of our illustrious sons, a loving father, a man of peace filled with wisdom and honesty.” The lawmaker added, “We cannot question the Almighty Allah over what has happened, so I urge members of his family and his constituents to take heart and consider the death of Hon. Maitala as part of Allah’s decree. “I also pray to Allah to forgive all his sins while on earth and grant the departed souls Jannatul Firdaus.” So far, five members of the 9th House of Reps have died since it was inaugurated in June 2019. Maitala is also the third member of the House to have died in 2021. Ossy Prestige, who represented Aba North/South, died in a German Hospital on February 8, 2021, while Yuguda Hassan Kila, died in March 2021, at the National Hospital.  