 LINUS CHIBUIKE PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has advised Nigerians not to allow the antics of a few mischief mongers to fragment the unity and faith that the vast majority of citizens cherish and believe in. He reiterated that all the regions were better and stronger as one nation under God. Buhari spoke through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in his Easter message to Christians. He said a year ago, in most of Nigeria’s major cities, celebrations were somewhat subdued, as the country battled the effect of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic. “The restrictions meant that our brethren could not attend traditional church services as they would have wished. I salute their resilience and understanding. Today, we are able to congregate and worship together, cautiously,” he added. President Buhari also acknowledged and appreciated the sacrifices of doctors, nurses and other frontline health workers, who had made the difference in saving lives and ensuring the reduction of the spread of the virus. “I thank Nigerians who have religiously adhered to various interventions to curb the spread of COVID-19, including regular hand washing; safe distancing, wearing of face masks, and embrace of vaccination,” he said. “We are united in our belief that if we do the right things, take the right decisions and act responsibly, the pandemic, like others before it, will no longer be a threat,” he noted. The President said the Easter celebration was an opportunity to renew hope and faith, show love and appreciation to one another and not to despair, no matter the challenges of the period. “As a government, we will continue to ensure that the weak, the poor and the underprivileged in our midst are not abandoned. We have reached out with palliative care even in the midst of dwindling resources; we have tried our best to provide support to families and businesses affected at this time,” he stated. “That is the spirit of Easter. The spirit of Faith. The spirit of Belief. The spirit of Hope,” the President said. He also commended law enforcement and military personnel who continued to confront evil-minded individuals through the darkest of nights to keep Nigerians safe. “I am convinced that the new resolve within the security personnel to make sure that insecurity in the country becomes part of our history will come to pass,” he said.  