 LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Timi Frank, has berated the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, over what he called Malami’s unguarded and divisive comment against former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He said it was both disgraceful and unpatriotic that the likes of Malami would be making such comments, noting that such divisive comments were capable of fuelling various secessionist agitations in Nigeria today. While describing Malami as “a comedian among other comedians” in a statement on Wednesday, Frank advised the AGF to focus on more crucial issues bedevelling the country. He said, “Atiku Abubakar is a true Nigerian who has sacrificed a lot to stabilise Nigeria’s democracy and economy. It is only a comedian that can, therefore, come out to say that Atiku is not a true Nigerian. “It is both disgraceful and unpatriotic for the likes of Malami to be making such unguarded and divisive comments at this time of our country’s existence. It is this kind of divisive comments that fuel various secessionist agitations in this country today.” Frank added, “Today, Nigeria has become the world poverty capital. Corruption has become almost enthroned in this country and Malami is the attorney general and a minister in this government. Malami and some other jokers in government have turned this country into a joke with their comedy. “Otherwise, how can Malami say Atiku is not a true Nigerian? A man who contested the governorship of Adamawa State and won and later became the Vice President of Nigeria for eight years has suddenly become a foreigner in Nigeria?” He queried how a man who served the country as a Customs’ Officer and had many establishments that contributed immensely to the development of Nigeria had suddenly become a non-Nigerian. “Is this how everything has become a joke to Malami and other comedians running the present administration?” He asked. Frank added, “This is how just few years before the United States of America’s election, former President Donald Trump brought up baseless claims against the current U.S. President, Joe Biden. “This politics of holding to straws in a failed attempt to dent the image of a patriotic and respected Nigerian like Atiku is reprehensible. “If a man like Atiku, who has sacrificed so much by contributing to the development of Nigeria and stabilizing the country’s economy and democracy through numerous job creation, quality leadership and uniting the country is not a true Nigerian, then let Malami tell us what he, as the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, has contributed to this country after benefitting so much from Nigeria. “Let Malami stop making Nigeria the laughing stock in the comity of nations by such baseless comments.” According to him, Nigeria has had enough “of this ridicule and we say, enough is enough! We can’t be dragged to the mud any longer.” “It is undoubtedly clear that should Atiku choose to run for 2023 presidential election and wins, he would clean up the mess created in this country,” he noted.  