 LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, has described as worrisome, a situation where President Muhammadu Buhari’s spokespersons are the ones defending those who openly support terrorists. Referring to the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, Fayose imsinuated that the current administration had allegedly become an employer and defender of Boko Haram terrorists and armed bandits. While advising Nigerians to be careful when moving around, so as not to fall victims to terrorists who have taken over the entire country, he pointed out that Nigeria was being governed by those who had at one time been nominated as negotiators for Boko Haram. He added that their lieutenants were those who had openly kicked against military action against Boko Haram terrorists and rejected the categorisation as a terrorist organisation. The former governor spoke in a statement, on Sunday, by his Media Aide, Lere Olayinka. He said the controversy involving Pantami had further exposed the current government’s hypocrisy and complicity. “t is saddening and worrisome that spokesmen of the president were the ones going from one media house to another to defend someone who openly supported terrorists,” he said. “In the last three days, over 300 Nigerians have been killed across the country, with several others in captivity, and this is still not enough for President Muhammadu Buhari and his men to wear sackcloth and cover themselves with ashes. Rather, they are seen making merry as if nothing has happened,” he added. The Peoples Democratic Party chieftain noted that those ruling Nigeria, particularly at the federal level, were acting as if the country was about the government and them, forgetting that the government was about the country and its people. According to him, with the killing of Nigerians from North, South, East and West, it is certain that Nigerians must be impatient to send the APC government packing in 2023. Lambasting the APC government, he said having made the mistake of bringing Buhari in 2015, waiting between now and 2023 would remain a pain in the heart of Nigerians. Fayose stated, “It is funny that today if those running the affairs of the country are not telling us that armed bandits must be seen as innocent until proven guilty, they will be saying offence of forgery is more grievous than an open declaration of support for terrorists. “Because of their inability to take decisive actions against these terrorists that they appear to have sympathy for, Nigeria is no longer safe for anyone to live in. “Our roads have been taken over by terrorists while Nigerians, including traditional rulers, are now being abducted right inside their bedrooms.” “It is, therefore, my counsel to Nigerians that they should stay in their domains at this period and avoid travelling around the country. Those staying in isolated areas should also endeavour to move to where there are more people. It is my prayer that God will restore peace and normalcy to our country,” the former Governor said. 