BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Secretary General of Traditional Sports Federation (TSFN), Alh. Ahmed Abdullahi Libata has thumbed up the quality of officiating at the ongoing National Sports Festival in Benin, Edo State. Speaking to our correspondent he said all the technical and officiating officials are keeping to the rules of officiating of the five trado sports approved for the festival and heaped praises on the attitude of all participating states in their various events. “We are showcasing five our trado sports in Benin here, which are Abula, Ayo, Dambe, Kokawa and Dambe and the turnout is okay despite the challenges posed by Covid-19. “All the officials are keeping to the rules because we do not want any major eventuality and that is why our officials are very careful and vigilant. “On the events proper, you can see we are yet to commence all our events. For example Abula is starting on Wednesday and I hope as the results trickle in, we keep the various media houses covering the events informed on the results of our activities,” he assured. More than 32 sports are featuring at the Festival and tops among the sports are: Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Beach Volleyball, Boxing, Chess, Cycling, Football, Gymnastics, Handball, Hockey, Judo, Karate, Kickboxing, Kung-fu , Para- Athletics, Para- Powerlifting, Para- Table Tennis, Scrabble, Squash, Swimming. Others are Table Tennis, Tennis, Taekwondo, Volleyball (Indoor), Weightlifting and Wrestling. Others are: Amputee Football, Canoeing, Cricket, Darts, Deaf sports ( male and female sprint event in Athletics, Fives, Golf, Para Shooting, Para Soccer, Para Swimming, Para Taekwondo, Rowing, Rugby, Sailing, Shooting, Sitting volleyball, Traditional boxing (Dambe), Traditional sport (Abula), Traditional Sport ( Ayo), Traditional Sport ( Langa), Traditional Wrestling ( Kokawa), Wheelchair Basketball, Wheelchair Tennis and Yachting. Delta State won the last edition of the National Sports Festival hosted by FCT Abuja, tagged Abuja 2018.  