 TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Osun State Police Command has confirmed that the abductors of two Chinese nationals from a mining site in the state have demanded N10million ransom. Some yet-to-be identified gunmen had stormed a mining site in Ifewara, Atakunmosa West Local Government Area of Osun State, on Monday, and kidnapped two Chinese expatriates. The Police confirmed this in a statement issued by its spokeperson, Yemisi Opalola, adding that the abductors shot their guards before escaping. This came barely two months after some gunmen killed a yet-to-be identified police officer attached to three Chinese expatriates in the state. After killing the officer, the three expatriates were taken away from a mining site in the same Ifewara community. The newly abducted foreigners are Messrs Zhao Jian, aged 33 and When, 50. They were abducted at Okepa/Itikan village, a gold mining site in Ifewara. It was gathered that around 4pm on Monday, some gunmen attacked and abducted the duo and shot their two private guards. A statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer, Osun Command, SP Yemisi Opalola, said the “two private guards were shot and have been taken to the general hospital for treatment.” She disclosed that the State Commissioner of Police, CP Olawale Olokode, had immediately drafted a strong combined reinforcement of Police Tactical Units, JTF, and other security outfits who had embarked on a search/rescue operation of the two abducted Chinese persons and possible arrest of all the fleeing criminals. “The Commissioner of Police enjoined members of the public to support, co-operate, and collaborate with the Police in fighting crime in order to bring it down to the barest minimum, by providing us with credible and prompt information as he promised to rescue the abductees unhurt,” the statement said. But giving update on the kidnap incident on Wednesday, the Police disclosed that the abductors contacted the family and demanded N10million ransom. Opalola said the Police and other local security agents were still in the bush trailing the kidnappers. The police spokeperson couldn’t confirm if the ransom would be paid or not as Opalola simply stated that “we can’t say anything about that.” It was reliably gathered that the three Kidnapped expatriates in February were released after some undisclosed ransom was paid.  