 AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI EX-COUNCIL Chairman of Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Ogbonnaya Oko-Enyim, has announced a different date for the burial of his father, after his younger sister who is the incumbent council boss, announced a different date. Late Simon Okoenyim, father of the duo, who held the title of Omezue, the highest traditional title in the entire Afikpo clan, died at the age of 85 on February 22, 2020. According to the burial program, the ex-council boss, who is the eldest son of the family, fixed the burial of his father for 8th April, 2021, while his younger sister fixed the burial of the same man for 8th May, 2021. The situation has heightened the tension in the Oko-Enyim denasty, the local government and the entire state, with many saying it might result in blooodbath. A statement by the incumbent council chairman, Oby Oko-Enyim, warned against the burial of her father without her consent and charged security agencies to arrest anyone or group of persons who attempt to bury him on any other date except 8th May, 2021. She said, “Following series of calls from different quarters as regards the burial of our father, late Omezue S.O Enyim, members of the public are by this announcement informed that the family, in collaboration with the Omezue Title Holders and other Traditional Groups in Amasiri, has scheduled the funeral of the late Sage to hold on the 8th of May 2021. “Any person or group of persons parading any other date as regards the burial is on a mission to create disaffection and tension which could cause a breach of public peace. “Law enforcement agencies have therefore been alerted on this cladestine move of some persons to hold the burial of our late father contrary to the family agreement and they are on ground to arrest and prosecute any one found culpable in the matter. “Friends of the family as well as members of the public are enjoined to be guided by this announcement and disregard the purported burial holding today Wednesday 7th (wakekeep)and tomorrow Thursday 8th Apirl 2021 as there is nothing like that.” Recall that Ogbonnaya Oko-Enyim, the ex council chairman, recently resigned from Governor Umahi’s government as Special Assistant to the Governor on Schools Monitoring. His younger sister, Oby Oko-Enyim, is a stunch member of the APC.  