 BY NGOZI OKORIE OSUN State Coaches have cried out over alleged failure of the State Government to pay their allowances for the National Sports Festival, Edo 2020. Out of the seven nights spent at the festival camp, the coaches said the State Ministry of Sports had only paid them for three nights. It was gathered that the officials of the State Sports Council had yet to receive the balance of their allowances. In a chat with some of the contract coaches who craved anonymity, they disclosed that the state Ministry of Youth and Sports only paid them N6,000 per night for three days while the allowances for the remaining four days had yet to be paid. The N6,000, it was gathered, would cater for the accommodation and feeding for each of the coaches daily. They threatened to boycott the parade of athletes which is part of the activities marking the closure of the sports festival and also stay put in Edo camp until their allowances were paid. One of the coaches said, “The situation has been terrible ever since we came here. We barely eat three square meals. The state government has only paid our allowance for three nights. And we know that this is a ploy to rob us. We will not participate in the closing ceremony. Our athletes will not participate in the parade. “We have already seized the keys to the vehicles that brought us to Edo and we will not allow any athlete to leave this camp until our allowances are paid. We are hearing that the Commissioner of Sports wants to pay athletes their allowances and take them to Osun but we will resist that. Nobody will leave this camp until we the coaches are given our allowance.” “Even the N6,000 is little compared to the expenses we have incurred here but we won’t allow any athletes to go until they pay us our allowance. The state Governor through the Secretary to the State Government had told us while we were leaving for Edo that our allowances had been released. So, why are they hoarding our money?” He queried. When contacted on the telephone on Tuesday, the state Commssioner for Youths and Sports, Yemi Lawal, said the balance of their allowances would be paid once the Government releases it. He said, “You see, our people are used to the old ways. And what do I mean by the old ways? You see, they said they got two of three nights. How much did they get in figure and how much was released by the state government? The entire that was released was shared and I monitored it. “What we ensured was that most of the athletes who don’t earn salaries from the state government, their own money is paid 100 per cent. We must ensure that we do the necessary things, transportation, registration and all of that. After these, whatever is left should be given to the staff of the sports council who are the coaches. “So, complaining now that they have not received 100 per cent… You are salary earners now and you are committed to what you are doing and that’s why you are paid salaries. So, why not hold on, if we are able to secure fund from the government, then you will be paid in arrears. We still have some money to collect from the state government, there is no doubt about that. I know how much effort I put in place to ensure we got the one we got.” “Once the Government releases money, they will be paid. The athletes have got their full payment,” Lawal noted. The closing ceremony of the festival is slated for Wednesday where officials and athletes will hold a parade to signal the end of the national game.  