 BY BANYO TEMITAYO WITH top brands in various industries in Nigeria making attempts to offer customer satisfaction with their products and services, Wema Bank Plc has said its customers remain its top priority in terms of service delivery and customer satisfaction. In a press statement issued by the bank and signed by its Head, Brands and Communications, Mrs. Funmi Falola, the bank said it had consistently pushed the envelope in offering customer satisfaction within and outside the conventional banking needs. It said its alternative channels, including the USSD codes and the ALAT digital banking platform, were consistently available for customers to make all their payments and subscriptions with ease, stressing that these channels were very helpful for customers during the Covid-19-induced lockdown, as customers had no need to visit the banking halls, thereby compromising their health. In furtherance of its commitment to giving the best to its customers, the bank explained that it had always identified their needs and provided solutions accordingly. The statement said, “As the heat of the coronavirus burned intensely last year, and with the implementation of the strict lockdown measures that hindered a lot of Nigerians and by extension some of the bank’s customers from carrying out their regular business activities, Wema Bank rose to the occasion by identifying the economic challenge this would inadvertently pose and offering a solution through Covid-19 palliative distributions within its host communities.” It said states that were most affected by the lockdown measures were identified by the bank and communities in such states needing relief funds were particularly attended to. The statement quoted the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Ademola Adebise, who spoke on the palliatives distribution, as saying, “Wema Bank is taking responsibility to support the governments of the affected states in the belief that this is a collective fight. We also encourage Nigerians to do their respective bids to win the war against COVID-19.” The bank said its help to customers was not limited only to distributing relief materials during the pandemic but also extended to providing a digital product (ALAT) that offered a quick, easy, and safe way for customers to make their bank transfers while at home. The bank said, “Having identified her customers’ safety and health as a major factor that needs addressing, the bank, in coalition with AIICO Insurance, launched a health initiative for her female customers which offered them easy-to-access and affordable health plans at a discount. “The SARA health scheme enables the bank’s female community, including customers and staff to enjoy premium health services and is available at prices and payment plans that are found to be convenient to them.” With ALAT, arguably the best digital bank in Nigeria, the popular retail bank developed a means through which customers could get their NIN numbers with ease. This was in response to the tedious and unsafe way in which members of the masses had to queue up to have this done physically, the bank said. In its bid to employ technology to improve service quality, the bank said it hosted its second edition of the hackathon contest – Hackaholics 2.0. in February 2021, which brought business owners from all corners of the country to pitch their products and platforms which offered technological solutions to world problems. According to the statement, the Hackaholics 2.0 was designed to empower business owners to do more and to promote the next set of solutions that will solve major challenges in our current world.  