 TIMOTHY AGBOR,OSOGBO OSUN State Police Patrol has allegedly chased to death a graduate of the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, Taiwo Kajogbola, along Kajola/Osunjela road, in Osun State. It was gathered that the middle-aged man who was riding a lady’s bike at the time of the accident, was going to give his parents some food to break their fast on Sunday before his untimely death. A source said the deceased allegedly refused to stop at Kajola for a stop-and-search at the checkpoint when the police stopped him on his way back to Osogbo. Kajogbola’s alleged refusal to stop prompted a hot chase by the police who purportedly hit his bike from behind with their patrol vehicle, when they caught up with him at Osunjela, leaving him in his pool of blood. It was learnt that the officers on the patrol, having realised the gravity of the incident, made a U-turn and abandoned the victim. Kajogbola was unlucky as he did not survive the incident. He reportedly died after some road users took him to a hospital. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Yemisi Opalola, said she just received information on the incident but assured that investigation would be carried out to unravel the details. The Point gathered that the deceased studied Mass Communication at the Federal Polytechnic, Offa and that he completed his National Diploma in 2019. Meanwhile, staff of Radio Nigeria, Gold FM, where Kajogbola had his industrial training in 2018, in the News Department, have described the news of his death as shocking. They said Taiwo was one of the well behaved students in the 2018 set. Also, Isaac Olusesi, who was the deceased’s tailor, confirmed his death to our correspodent on Tuesday and said his family had been thrown into mourning. “Tadolee as I always call you. Your sudden death has caused me tears. I pray God should be with your parents and the entire family you left behind,” Isaac said. When contacted, the deceased’s father, Mr Kajogbola, also confirmed the death, saying the family was investigating the incident. Recall that some personnel of the State Joint Task Force (JTF) had allegedly chased a boy, Idris Ajibola, to death in Osogbo, in September, last year. 