 BY VICTORIA ONU, ABUJA THE Nigeria Customs Service generated a total of N1.56trn for the 2020 fiscal period despite restrictions caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. The amount generated is N182bn higher than the target of N1.38trn set for the agency by the Federal Government in the 2020 fiscal period. It is also higher than the sum of N1.34trn generated in 2019. Commenting on the revenue performance, the Comptroller-General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (retd), described it as a result of resolute pursuit of what is right and willingness to adapt to changes brought about by global health challenges occasioned by COVID-19. He said the service revenue generation profile had continued to be on the rise annually as the ongoing reforms in the Service insisted on strategic deployment of officers, strictly using the standard operating procedure. The Service has also ensured strict enforcement of extant guidelines by the tariff and trade department, including automate process, thereby eliminating vices associated with the manual process. It has also carried out a robust stakeholder sensitisation resulting in more informed/voluntary compliance. The CG said in a statement on Wednesday that the partial border closure, which had forced cargoes that could have been smuggled through the porous borders to come through the sea and airports, raised revenue collection from ports. Before the commencement of the border drill on August 20 2019, revenue generation was between N4bn to N5bn. However, he said the NCS generated between N5bn and N9bn daily. He said the diplomatic engagements that took place during the partial land border closure yielded many positive results, including commitment to complying with the ECOWAS Protocol on Transit. He said the teams were required to share intelligence and ensure prevention of transit of prohibited goods into the neighbour’s territory. Alli explained that the Service was now ready to strictly implement the outcome of the diplomatic engagements as the land borders opened for movement of cargoes. The CG added that intelligence gathered during the period and the introduction of the e-Customs with components like installation of scanners at all entry points would enhance border security and boost national trade facilitation. He said already, the Ministry of Finance had purchased three new Scanners. “Interestingly, the Central Bank of Nigeria has also expressed commitment to purchasing four Scanners and establishing the control center for monitoring all scanning sites in their bid to boost national economy, especially agricultural sector. “This means that within the next six months, NCS will have about seven functional Scanners to be mounted at strategic entry points even before the full deployment of e-Customs components which will see to the deployment of 135 modern Scanners,” the statement said. In the same vein, the CG said the Service’s efforts at preventing the entry of items that could compromise the Security of the citizens, economy and the well being of the people resulted in the seizure of 4,304 assorted items with a duty paid value of N28.28bn. These seizures include arms, ammunitions, illicit drugs, used clothing, vegetable oil, frozen poultry and foreign rice among others that have grave consequences on economic security and well being of Nigerians. “While we give assurances of total commitment to the course of protecting national security and economy, we call on Nigerians, especially the business community, to support the NCS as our borders open to African Continental Free Trade Agreement in order to benefit from the trade agreement and other cross border activities,” he added.  