 BY BANYO TEMITAYO CONTRARY to a clarification by the Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission on Tuesday that it had not given an approval for a 50 per cent hike in electricity tariff, the statement issued by the Commission refuting reports to this effect corroborated the increase. Analysts who spoke in separate interviews with THE POINT described the Commission’s refutal as an insult to informed Nigerians. The Head, Public Affairs, NERC, Michael Faloseyi, had issued a statement in reaction to media reports on the latest electricity tariff hike, urging the media to retract their publications which he said misinformed electricity consumers nationwide “about a purported 50 per cent increase in electricity tariff.” But part of the second paragraph of the statement, as analysed by THE POINT, reflected a 50 per cent increase to N4.00 per kWhr for key service bands. The statement read, “The commission hereby states unequivocally that no approval has been granted for 50 per cent tariff increase in the tariff order for Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) which took effect from January 1, 2021. “On the contrary, the tariff for customers on Service Bands D and E (customers being served less than an average of 12 hours of supply per day for a period of one month) remains frozen and subsidised in line with the policy direction of the Federal Government. “In compliance with the Electric Power Sector Reforms Acts (EPRSA) and the nation’s tariff methodology for biannual review, the rates for Service Bands A, B, C, D and E have been adjusted by N2.00 to N4.00 per kWhr to reflect the partial impact of inflation and movement in foreign exchange rates.” In view of the reality of the hike, Nigerians have called on the current administration to lead the country with facts and not sentiments. Kayode Owoeye, a retired journalist, said the second paragraph of the statement issued by NERC reflected the increase clearly, regardless of the Bands affected. “It’s high time Government stopped insulting Nigerians,” he said. Haruna Abeebat, an economist, said, “What is the meaning of an increase by N2.00 to N4.00? The Federal Government should respect Nigerians for their intelligence. They should find another lie. NLC should resist this.”  