 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Tinubu Support Group has berated the South West Caretaker Zonal Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, Karounwi Oladapo, for implying that National Leader of the party, Bola Tinubu, is too old to be President of Nigeria come 2023. The group, which is a support group for the actualisation of Tinubu for 2023 presidency, also described Oladapo’s analysis, which singled out Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State as favoured for the APC 2023 presidential ticket, as “foolish and myopic”. Head, Media and Publicity, TSG, Oluwatosin Johnson, who made this position known in a statement on Sunday, said the caretaker zonal publicity secretary was only being mischievous. Oladapo, a former Deputy Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, had, in a recent interview, said, “Our national leader, highly respected Senator Ahmed Tinubu, I love him because he has paid his dues, but the fact remains that by 2023, he will be above 70 years of age. I cannot in all good conscience support that. “Even if my father or my mother is contesting for President and they are above 70 by 2023, I will not support them. Dr Kayode Fayemi that I am advocating for is 55 years of age, a senior youth within the bracket of the ‘sorosoke’ generation’s request, that is number one. “Number two, when you look at the presidential arrangement of Nigeria, whether by design or default or coincidence, If you look at it from 1999, you will see that we had Obasanjo, a Christian President by religion from the South. “After Obasanjo, power shifted to Yar’Adua, a Muslim from the North and power again shifted to a Christian, Jonathan, from the South, before power again moved to Buhari, a northern Muslim. By reasoning, one would naturally want to deduce that the next President should be a Christian southerner.” But the TSG said, “Without sentiments, President Muhammadu Buhari is no doubt one of the greatest Presidents Nigeria ever had, yet he’s in his 70s. “Saying Asiwaju will soon be 70 and too old for the exalted office of the President is foolish and myopic.” The group argued that the United States had just elected “a President full of energy to make their nation great again, and we are still here thinking the problem of Nigeria is the age of our leaders. President-elect Joe Biden is 78 years old.” “Look at Lagos today. It’s a state everyone is proud to be identified with. This is happening because of the developmental blueprint made available by Asiwaju,” Johnson said. “I would advise him to be a good party man and stop all his antics to divide our great party,” he added.  