 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Presidency has alleged that another orchestrated smear campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari is scheduled to be launched soon through editorials and “purported investigative stories.” Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, raised the alarm, in a statement on Friday, that the campaign was being designed to further exacerbate tension in the land, by portraying the President as pandering to ethnic and other primordial tendencies, contrary to his pledge to belong to all Nigerians. He said, in line with the alleged plan, a specific medium had so far contacted some opinion leaders, especially those very critical of President Buhari. The Presidential spokesperson said, “The campaign, scheduled to be launched anytime soon through editorials and purported special investigative stories, is designed to further exacerbate tension in the land, by portraying the President as pandering to ethnic and other primordial tendencies, contrary to his pledge to belong to all Nigerians. “Impeccable security findings indicate that those behind the plot have procured online blogs and newspapers, which are to launch coordinated publications, alleging subjugation and suppression of a particular religion and ethnic groups.” He added, “Part of the planned publication is to make unwary readers believe that the President has continually used the powers of his office to shield and protect an ethnic group against crimes of murder, kidnappings, rape and banditry in the southern, middle belt and some northern states. “The publication will also refer Nigerians to a 58-page document, which chronicles purported atrocities of the ethnic group in the South since 2017, all of which it claims the Presidency has turned blind eyes to. “Again, the hatchet job will allege that the President has continued to place members of his ethnic nationality in sensitive positions, so as to confer undue advantage on them. This allegation is by no means supported with reasonable facts and figures.’’ Adesina said those who were bent on stoking ethnic and religious unrest in the country had remained deaf to reason, and impervious to reality. “They are hell-bent on distorting reality, and Nigerians are urged to be wary of them. It is all about the quest for power, and filthy lucre,’’ he noted. The President, in reaction to the ongoing herdsmen crisis in the South-West, which had led to killings and destruction of properties in some parts of the region, had assured Nigerians that his administration would not allow religious prejudice or partisanship to influence any of its decisions and policies. “It is my solemn decision to be fair and just to all segments of society,” he reiterated. 