… Deadline remains Feb.9, 2021  BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE A total of 47.8 million National Identification Numbers have, so far, been collected by mobile operators in Nigeria, the Federal Government has disclosed. The NINs were collected at an average of three to four SIMs per subscriber, a statement signed by the Director, Public Affairs, Nigerian Communications Commission, Ikechukwu Adinde, said. The statement, which was released on Tuesday, added that this meant “many millions would be linked up before the deadline in February 2021.” According to Adinde, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, expressed the Federal Government’s appreciation for the commitment demonstrated by all stakeholders and citizens. He, however, urged them to submit their NINs before the 9th February, 2021 deadline. The statement read, “At the end of a review meeting on 18th January 2021, the Technical Implementation Committee under the Ministerial Task Force has reported significant progress in the ongoing NIN-SIM linkage exercise. “Reacting to the report, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, expressed satisfaction with this commendable achievement. “He expressed the Federal Government’s appreciation for the commitment demonstrated by all stakeholders and citizens and urged them to submit their NINs before 9th February, 2021 deadline.” The Minister also urged the technical team to fast-track the processes so that the project would be delivered very soon. “The Technical Committee drew attention to the App developed by Federal Government which allows subscribers to link up to a maximum of seven (7) SIMs to their NIN,” the statement added. The minister reminded Nigerians to secure and protect their NINs, urging subscribers to desist from selling their NINs or allowing others to use their NINs for registration. “For any action committed with the SIM, good or bad, it will be officially traced and attached to the NIN owner,” the Minister warned.  