 BY AYO ESAN GOVERNOR Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has reviewed the curfew earlier imposed on the state to span from 10pm to 5am. This, he said, was to check the rising cases of COVID-19 in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic. The governor, who rolled out several measures to halt the spread of the virus in the state during a press conference in Government House, Benin City, also announced the suspension of schools’ resumption. Those in attendance at the conference include the Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu; Edo State Coordinator, World Health Organisation, Faith Ireye; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Osamwonyi Irowa; and Edo State COVID-19 Incident Manager, Andrew Obi, among others. Governor Obaseki said the state government had built a robust response mechanism while dealing with the first wave of the coronavirus, but that data from comparison between the first and the second wave of the pandemic showed that there was a need to take drastic measures so as to limit the spread of the new wave of the virus, which had been confirmed to be more virulent and infectious. He said, “Comparing the first six weeks of the pandemic from March 23, 2020 with the first six weeks since December 1, 2020, Edo State has witnessed an 84.5 per cent rise in the number of infected persons. “There has also been a 10.5 per cent increase in the number of older persons infected with COVID-19. It is early days yet, but we have evidence suggesting that more older persons infected with COVID-19 are dying. “Most of the cases in the early phase of the pandemic were travel-related but since December 2020, there has been a 13.9 per cent increase in community transmission of the disease. “This is a big concern, especially with the evidence before us that there has been a 15 per cent increase in the number of persons infected with COVID-19 who show no signs or symptoms of the disease, but are transmitting it in our communities. Our children and youth are major contributors to this group.” On the new directives to halt the spread of the virus, he said the general recommendations were that individuals, groups and organisations must take responsibility to avoid closed spaces, crowded places and close contact. “Curfew is now reviewed from 10 pm to 5am effective Saturday 16th January, 2021,” he added. On schools’ resumption, Governor Obaseki said schools were to remain shut till February 1, 2021, when the prevailing realities would be reviewed to determine if it would be safe to reopen the schools. The governor also stressed that sanctions and incentive shall be used to drive better compliance using enforcement and monitoring teams across the state, urging government-owned organisations to model best practices. On religious gatherings, the governor said, “Handwashing stations with running water and liquid soap/alcohol-based hand sanitizers must be provided at entry and exit points. There must be temperature checks at entrance points and facemasks must be used correctly and consistently. “Sitting in gatherings should not exceed a maximum of 30 per cent of capacity per session and physical distancing (at least 1.5m) must be adhered to. The length of meetings should not exceed 1 hour and there must be breaks in-between sessions for decontamination. Children below 12 years and adults above 60 years should stay at home. “Monitoring/Enforcement teams must be set up and include powerful and influential religious leaders as drivers. There must be sensitization on COVID-19 prevention during every meeting. Written commendation by the governor and deputy governor will be issued to religious institutions who show good compliance to COVID-19 preventive measures.” For the transportation sector, the governor insisted that there must be compulsory, consistent and proper use of face masks by riders, drivers and passengers, adding “Monitoring/Enforcement team must be set up. Stop and check teams are to be set up to track and sanction motorbikes, tricycles, cars, buses for non-compliance with facemask use.” He added that there must be strict observation of ‘no facemask, no entry’ policy in hotels, lounges, bars, restaurants, while insisting on no eat-ins in restaurants. “These facilities must provide hand washing stations with running water and liquid soap; reduce numbers of chairs in bars, lounges and others and maintain physical distancing. All public swimming pools must be closed or pool party events banned,” the governor added.  