 BY SALIU SALIU PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has said that the era of crowning All Progressives Congress aspirants as the party’s choice from the seat of power in Abuja is over. He charged the APC Caretaker Committee members to use the bottom-up approach to return the party to the people. Buhari, who made the declaration in Daura, Katsina State, where he revalidated his membership of the APC, said, “No more crowning from Abuja downward. Let the people know this and appreciate it that they are in charge of their constituencies and in charge of the party. “Without any incentive, they must come out and defend the party at any level so that we, you and the party, will feel secure and comfortable because the old time of putting hands in the pocket is over…the money is no longer available.” The President said this just as he accused the Nigerian elite of harassing his administration instead of acknowledging his efforts at repositioning Nigeria by all means possible. He urged the Governors of the 36 states of the federation to convince Nigerians, especially the elite, to give his administration the respect and credit it deserved, in view of the achievements it had recorded with limited resources. The President said despite the state of the economy when he took over in 2015, and what his administration had been able to achieve so far, the elites in Nigeria were not being fair in their assessments. “The problem is that I will like, especially the elites, to please be reflective. When we came, where we were, the resources available from then and the condition of the infrastructure. I was contrived to go over it several times to tell Nigerians that between 1999 and 2014, let them check with the NNPC, let them check with the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. The daily production was 2.4 million barrels per day and the average cost was a hundred American dollars per barrel,” he said. The President added, “Look at the condition of infrastructure, you know this better than I do. I know I went to every local government of the country in my three consecutive attempts to become the President. You know the road more than I do. You know the condition of the rail, the railway was dead. Now look at it. What did they do with all the money? “When we took over in this administration, production went down to about half a million barrels per day, the price collapsed. We had to do what is called a bailout, wherever we got the money from. Upon all the money from 1999 to 2014, we had to give you money from the Center to pay salaries. No, Nigerian elites are not interested in rating the competence but they are interested in harassing us with all the efforts we are making.” 