 BY AYO ESAN GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Friday, declared that his government would not allow anyone hiding under the guise of protecting Yoruba interest to cause ethnic tension and perpetrate crisis in the state. He maintained that the war which the state and the security agencies needed to wage was not against any particular ethnic group but against criminal elements, irrespective of their tribes, religions, or creed. He therefore ordered the Police to go after those igniting ethnic tension in the state, arrest them and treat them like criminals. The governor added that his administration would not allow anyone to threaten the peace of the state by acting unlawfully and saying things that were alien to the Nigerian Constitution, noting that acts capable of causing chaos in the state would not be accepted. Makinde stated these while receiving the new Commissioner of Police in the state, Mrs. Ngozi Onadeko, declaring that the government would not relent in placing priority on the welfare of the officers and men of the Police Force in the state. Makinde made it clear that his administration would continue to synergise with all security agencies in the state to fight criminals, hoodlums and bandits irrespective of their tribes, religions, or creed, while urging the police to arrest miscreants causing tension and threatening the peace of the state. The governor said, “For people stoking ethnic tension, they are criminals and once you get them, they should be arrested and treated like common criminals. “For this administration, the major pillar for us is security, because we know that all the good economic plans we have won’t be possible in an atmosphere of chaos and insecurity. “So, when people say things that are neither lawful nor within the spirit of Nigeria’s Constitution, it is not acceptable here. And they cannot hide under the guise of protecting Yoruba’s interest to perpetuate chaos in the state. “I am sure that since you came in, you must have heard about some things happening at Ibarapa axis of the state. I will still say it here that we are not after Hausa-Fulani. We are after criminals.” “We are after hoodlums and bandits irrespective of their tribe, religion, or creed. Those are the people we are after. If you look into the records, when we had the armed robbery incident at Okeho in Kajola Local Government Area of the state, some people were killed, some were arrested and we found out that they were from Ebira, from Kogi State. So, we want to go after the criminals – whether they are Yoruba, Hausa, Fulani or whoever they are,” Makinde said.  