 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE House of Representatives is proposing a bill to criminalise secret recruitments into the Federal Civil Service by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government. With the proposed bill, it shall be an offence for any MDA to fill a vacancy unless the vacancies are well publicised before the commencement of the recruitment exercise. Any head of agency who flouts the rule risks a jail term or fine or both. This move, it was learnt, was to guide against recurring recruitment scandals in MDAs. The bill, called the Prohibition of Secret Recruitment in the Federal Civil Service Bill 2020, and sponsored by Teejay Yusuf (Kabba-Bunu/IjumuConstituency, Kogi), is aimed at promoting efficiency in the allocation of personnel in the Federal Civil Service. It is titled, “A Bill for an Act to Prohibit Secret Recruitment in the Federal Public Service and to Make Elaborate Provisions for Transparency in Recruitment in the Public Service through Publication of Vacancies and for Other Matters Connected Therewith.” “The bill seeks to promote integrity and transparency in the recruitment of personnel into the Federal Civil Service by making it an offence for a federal ministry, agency or parastatal to fill existing vacancies in their organisations if such vacancies have not been published,” the memorandum said. According to the bill, it shall be the policy of the Federal Government to promote efficiency in the allocation of personnel in the Federal Civil Service, as well as transparency and equal opportunities in the recruitment and hiring of new personnel. “Accordingly, it shall be an offence for any Federal Government ministry, agency or parastatal to fill a vacancy in their establishment unless the vacancies are well publicised before the commencement of the recruitment exercise. The publication referred to in Subsection 2 shall be in two national newspapers,” the bill read. It added, “Any person who violates the provisions of Section 2 (2) of this Act commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding One Hundred Thousand Naira (N100,000) or to imprisonment for a term of not more than six months or to both. “Where a Federal Government ministry, agency or parastatal commits an offence under this Act, the head of such ministry, agency or parastatal shall be guilty of the offence and punishable as prescribed in Subsection 1.” State High Courts shall have jurisdiction over matters in the proposed Act, while the Minister of Labour, Employment and Productivity may, with the approval of the President, make regulations for the implementation of the Act.  