 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Muslim Rights Concern has urged the South-West not to search too far in their quest for the 2023 Presidency, declaring that the best the Yoruba nation could do was to rally behind the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, and ensure that he wins. Director, MURIC, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, argued in a statement that Tinubu had an impeccable pedigree, noting also that no one could fault his political dexterity. “He is known to have fought and won several political battles. The best the Yoruba can do for the region is to rally behind this candidate and ensure that he clinches power in 2023,” he stressed. Akintola commended stakeholders for resolving the crisis between the Hausa/Fulani community of Igangan in Ibarapa, Oyo State, and their Yoruba hosts, and advised that the Yoruba nation must unite to secure power come 2023. He said the Yoruba nation must be seen to be accommodating if they must rule the country in 2023, noting that the region could not afford to lose the opportunity due to restlessness, recklessness, unnecessary protests, and issuance of quit notices to other ethnicities, among others. The MURIC Director said, “It is on record that the Yoruba have complained bitterly about marginalisation. This has resulted in the emergence of separatist groups calling for the establishment of Oduduwa Republic. However, the reality staring the Yoruba in the face today is the complex nature of the process of separation, vis-a-vis the proximity of a big opportunity of gaining political power in 2023 through an already well known democratic process. “Fortunately, the Yoruba do not have to search too far as a former governor of Lagos State and leader of the ruling party has shown interest. Here is a candidate that brandishes impeccable pedigree. Nobody can deny his political dexterity. “He is known to have fought and won several political battles. The best the Yoruba can do for the region is to rally behind this candidate and ensure that he clinches power in 2023.” He advised Yoruba leaders to drop all irredentist, insurrectionist and belligerent propensities in order to focus fully on the presidential ambition. “The tribe seeking to rule must be seen to be accommodating, tolerant and resilient,” he maintained. According to him, power shift to the South has become mandatory, “as President Buhari would have spent eight complete years by 2023 and all eyes are presently on the South-West.” “Therefore, the region cannot afford to lose the opportunity due to restlessness, recklessness, unnecessary protests, issuance of quit notices to other ethnicities and a general lack of stability,” Akintola concluded. 