 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Governor of Ebonyi State and Chairman, South East Governors’ Forum, David Umahi, has called on Igbos for a revolution in character and content. Umahi made the call when some Igbo stakeholders paid New Year homage to him at his Uburu home. He made the call just as he listed reasons allegations that Buhari hates Igbos were unfounded. Speaking during the visit, Umahi cautioned the people of the South East against unguarded utterances that were capable of igniting hostilities among brothers and other regions in the country. “I believe that opposition strengthens our position but we can’t discuss the security of South East on the pages of newspapers, after all, we are still the safest in the country. We need a revolution in character and content; we need it. Igbos were originally know for character,” he said. Governor Umahi, while debunking the allegations that President Muhammadu Buhari hates the Igbos, insisted that the Igbos, especially in Ebonyi State, never had it as good as under President Buhari. “Buhari is not against the Igbo man; it is in his time that Ebonyi State is seeing development; it is from his efforts that we are building the International Airport, the Ultra-modern Teaching Hospital and he even gave us over N3 billion to build the Cancer Centre in that hospital, etc. So, he doesn’t hate the Igbos,” he explained. The Governor declared his support and that of Ebonyi people for the election of Prof. George Obiozor as President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo come January 10, 2021. “I will stand with Ambassador Obiozor; we want character for the Igbo people. I love anyone that loves an Igbo man,” he said. He tasked Obiozor to regenerate Igbo unity when he emerged as President General. Earlier, foremost Igbo leader, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, commended Governor Umahi for his efforts at ensuring the peace and unity of the Igbo nation. Iwuanyanwu, while appreciating Governor Umahi for the massive renewal of the Abakaliki Capital City and environs, solicited the support of Ebonyi State for the candidature of Professor Obiozor whom he described as best suited for the job of President General among his challengers. “After rigorous evaluation, we have discovered that Professor Obiozor’s qualification and pedigree are quite appealing and we are convinced that he is the right person we can give to the South East Governors’ Forum and Ndigbo and we will not be disappointed. He is a very sound person; he has served Nigeria in so many capacities and he is the choice of Imo people,” he stated. The top contender, Obiozor, who described Governor Umahi as one of the best and brightest in the region, thanked the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Imo State Chapter, for choosing him as their consensus candidate and pledged to live up to expectations. “Governor Umahi is one of our best and brightest. He is the Governor of Governors; you are an example of Igbo exceptionalism…I also thank Imo Ohanaeze for choosing me as their consensus candidate. “Igbos today are in a difficult situation  and we need maturity to solve those problems. My aim is to assemble the Igbos; all we need is to create a common cause. By coming to Ebonyi State today, we know that our future is bright.”  