 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Government of Ebonyi State has debunked allegations of misapproriation of state funds by Governor David Umahi. The state government was reacting to unconfirmed reports on social media that the governor transfered billions of naira, belonging to the state, to his private company, Brass Engineering and Construction Nigeria Limited. The Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Uchenna Orji, described the said report as an unintelligent collection of fake news. He said the accusation was a mischievous circulation of fake figures of non-existent transactions, packaged by those he called nonentities playing the script of drowning political opponents of the governor. “Please discountenance the false and faceless publication captioned, ‘Bank documents expose how Governor Umahi transfered billions to his company from Ebonyi treasury,” he said. The statement read in part, “The attention of the Ministry of Information and State Orientation has been drawn to the false, faceless, seditious and senseless social media post made against the person of our performing Governor and the coporate personality of Brass Engineering & Construction Nigeria Ltd dated 29th January, 2021. “We wish to state categorically that the entirety of the content of the post is nothing but an unintelligent collection of fake news and mischievous circulation of fake figures of nonexistent transactions  packaged by a nonentity that is playing the script of drowning political opponents of a Distinguished leader whose hallmarks in good governance have gained national acclaim. “In their wildest show of ignorance of the law and facts, they alluded to Brass Engineering Construction Ltd as the private business of the Governor and framed up nonexistent figures to cover up their mendacities. They desperately brandished fake records of transactions to make people believe their lies. “We invite these political desperados to substantiate their allegations with the minutest documentary evidence or bury their heads in shame for selling dummy to swindle the sensibilities of the gullible. “Let it be known that the Governor had made his mark as an accomplished Captain of Industry with flourishing business empire before he joined active politics. Detractors must know that Brass Engineering Construction Nigeria Limited is a going concern which has a legal personality and management structure distinct and separate from the Governor with its rights and privileges under the Corporate Affairs and Allied Matters Act. “Those who are mentally and psychologically poor, but are agents of the spirit of envy and blackmail must know that our world class Leader, His Excellency Engr Chief David Nweze Umahi FNSE FNATE, is indistractable and his reputation indestructible as he is on a divine mission to move the  state to the part of irreversible greatness “These  political howlers have further revealed their motives and routes in their  attack to the Governor for defecting to the ruling APC and for his respect for the President of Nigeria. “There is no doubt that the sponsors of this fake social media post are from the sinking PDP group in Ebonyi State. This falsehood demonstrates how hopeless they can be in their fruitless efforts to destroy the reputation of a leader who has attained  greater heights in good governance, transparency and accountability. The Commissioner urged members of the public to disregard the publication as “another angle to many devilish ochestrations by the Udeogu faction of PDP in the State who by all intents and purposes has no vision and direction after being abandoned for the Progressives Party by the good people of  Ebonyi State.” 