 BY REBECCA AJANI THE Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party says it suspects that the opposition All Progressives Congress has a hand in the alleged production of fake Amotekun corps uniforms for hoodlums in the state. This, the party said, was aimed at causing mayhem in the state and blackmailing the Governor Seyi Makinde-led administration. The PDP claimed that those who were caught sewing fake uniforms could not have been emboldened to venture into such if they were not being supported by groups and individuals, it said, were desperate to discredit the hard-earned reputation of the present administration. The PDP took this stand in a statement signed by its State Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji. It said the Oyo State chapter of the APC had deployed all forms of malicious propaganda against the PDP government since Makinde assumed office as Governor. The statement said, “It was another great achievement for the state and the Amotekun corps to have discovered and apprehended one of the agents of darkness in our dear state who have perhaps been recruited by the opposition of our government in Oyo State to heighten insecurity and create an atmosphere of chaos so that the foiled and failed agenda they have been pursuing since the inception of this administration could materialise. “It is not news anymore to all residents in Oyo State that the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has deployed all forms of evil machinations, treachery, and malicious propaganda against the PDP government under the able leadership of His Excellency, Engr Seyi Makinde, since he assumed office as the executive governor. “In fact, one of their serving Senators once boldly told the world in a show of untamed desperation and hunger for power that the Makinde led government could not escape all three traps his party had set for Governor Seyi Makinde in a battle to steal Oyo people’s mandate through the backdoor using federal might, a move which not only failed woefully but further exposed them and their evil agenda to the world.” It added, “Governor Seyi Makinde has consistently said that the present administration is open to constructive criticism and useful suggestions on ways to make the state a much better place for all to live but what we have continued to witness from our opposition in Oyo State is nothing near constructive criticism but deliberate attacks and well-orchestrated plan by the Oyo APC to bring down this government at all costs, using insecurity which is part of their evil agenda as an excuse to advance whatever script they are executing. “How else do we rationalise the shocking development that Amotekun corps, which was created to complement mainstream security outfits in Nigeria to provide adequate security for the people of Oyo State, was already being sabotaged, or was Amotekun corps created to provide security for PDP members in the state?” “We wish to state categorically for the sake of the record, that Governor Seyi Makinde is among the very few Governors who have invested heavily on security since assumption of office,” the party stressed. It said it was also on record that Governor Makinde had invested in the security architecture of the state more than the immediate past APC government, despite his less than two years in office. The PDP said, “We will not urge them to stop because the good people of Oyo State already know them for what they are and what their party represents but we will continue to stay ahead of them and their evil agenda because we know there may be other recruits by these evil party elsewhere producing such fake uniforms to perpetrate, aid, and abet crime, with the aim of creating tension and apprehension within the state. “But just like this one, we assure them that they will be caught and severely dealt with according to the law.”  