… THE POINT publisher mourns Ajeyalemi  BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE INDICATIONS emerged on Thursday that the two University of Lagos professors who died from COVID-19 related complications days apart might have contracted the virus at a wedding ceremony they both attended in Lagos. This suspicion was fuelled by a report that two other professors of the University who attended the same event were also currently being treated for COVID-19 at the Intensive Care Unit of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi Arabia. The late former Vice Chancellor of UNILAG, Prof. Oye Ibidapo-Obe, was the Chairman of the wedding ceremony, it was learnt. Prof. Duro Ajeyalemi, who was a former Dean, Students Affairs of the University, was said to have also played a major role at the ceremony. He died on Wednesday, from complications relating to COVID-19. Publisher of The Point Newspapers, Yemi Kolapo, who described Ajeyalemi’s demise as a shock, prayed for an urgent end to the COVID-19 pandemic. Kolapo, in a condolence message to Ajeyalemi’s family, said he was a thorough-bred academic, who stood for justice and integrity during his lifetime. “He chose my course, Economics, for me when I was about to write the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board examination, and ensured he monitored me to be one of the best the university produced. He was, on the request of my father, Alhaji Tayo Sowunmi, always asking people to go and find out where I was. It was either the library, my room, or the Moremi reading room,” she recalled. “He also followed up with my lecturers to know how I fared, and would give me kudos for the feedback he got. I am eternally grateful to this selfless man. May his soul rest in perfect peace,” the publisher added. Nigerians have however continued to mourn the two dons. A post on a WhatsApp platform, Ijesa Society, said, “It is with heavy heart that the President and the Executive of the Ijesa Society regret to announce, once again, the untimely passing on to glory of our Distinguished Member, Professor Duro Ajeyalemi, after a brief illness this morning at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital. Professor Ajeyalemi was a well known Professor of Education and First Registrar/CEO of JUPEB who built the organisation from inception to its enviable heights in over 50 universities in Nigeria. “He was a committed member of the Society and long-term Chairman of the Education and Welfare Committees. We pray the Almighty to grant him eternal rest in the bosom of the Lord. “May the Lord comfort the wife, children, the immediate and extended family and friends and grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. May the Lord fill their hearts with heavenly joy.”  