 BY AYO ESAN GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, has said his government is already investigating the alleged highhandedness of the Amotekun corps, noting that the issues will be addressed squarely in the interest of the security and wellbeing of residents of the state. The governor reassured the residents of the state that the administration was doing everything it could to address security challenges in the state. He said this just as he declared that his administration would not “sit back and watch any harassment or intimidation of any member of the public.” Makinde made these positions known on his Twitter handle @seyiamakinde while speaking on the recent occurrence in Tapa Town in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the state. The incident involved some youths and corps of the Oyo Security Network Agency codenamed Amotekun. He added that Amotekun was introduced to check insecurity in the state, noting that the government would not sit back and watch any harassment or intimidation of any member of the public or any security agent. He said, “Following the recent events in Tapa, Ibarapa North Local Government Area, it becomes imperative that I once again reassure the good people of Oyo State that our administration is doing everything in its power to address security issues in our state. “One of the strategies we are using to check insecurity in the state is the recently introduced Western Nigeria Security Network (Amotekun). I am fully aware of the alleged highhandedness by some members of the corps. We are investigating these issues to address them promptly. “The welfare and security of the good people of Oyo State remain our top priority. We will not sit back and watch any harassment or intimidation of members of the public or our security officers.” “Therefore, I urge the good people of Oyo State to please remain calm and allow members of the corps to perform their legally authorised duties for our people’s well-being. Let me assure you that if any corps members are abusing their office, they will be dealt with accordingly,” the governor added.  