 BY AYO ESAN FOUNDER of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji has called on the leadership of the two main political parties in Nigeria – the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party – to sustain the policy of rotating the presidency between the North and the South to ensure peaceful transition from one government to the other. Maharaj Ji, who spoke with journalists in Ibadan as part of activities marking his 73rd year physical and 41st spiritual birthday, said the strict adherence to rotation of Presidency between the North and the South would give every part of the country a sense of belonging. He said, “Much as I am not an advocate of ethnic presidency, be it Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa, there is this subsisting political culture whereby if, for instance, the North rules the nation for eight years, the baton passes on to the South. This must as a matter of necessity remain in force. “Despite the associated imperfection with this unwritten agreement, we have to sustain it for now in the interest of decency and equity in order to give a sense of belonging to all Nigerians.” He said there was no doubt that the persistent clamouring, mainly by the majority ethnic nationalities, for self-rule was suggestive of the simple truth that something was terribly wrong at the centre. He noted, “The players at the centre are not scoring the goals to the glory of Nigeria and Nigerians simply because they are not detribalised and have lost focus of the founding fathers. “They are still held down by clannish vices as well as religious bigotry. These negative human viruses have eaten deep into the psyche of our present leaders to becloud their sense of patriotic duty to the nation as evidently portrayed by the way and manner they are administering our vast human and natural resources.” Speaking on the 2023 presidency, Maharaj Ji said Nigeria needed seasoned leaders who would love and care for Nigerians as children of the same father, so as to provide adequate security, shelter and job opportunities for all on the basis of merit. He also expressed his displeasure about the recent call for the use of mercenaries to secure Nigeria, saying this was unacceptable to him just as he described those calling for it as not only being unpatriotic but “terrorists in political garbs”. Maharaj Ji  called on the country’s  leadership to note that for sustained social coherence, peace and progress, the constitutional rights of citizens to protest peacefully, without arms must be respected. He said families of victims of #EndSARS protest should be compensated and that those who hijacked and turned the peaceful protest into violence should be made to appear for judgement in the spiritual court. He called for police reforms, saying, “The police have no business in meddling in land matters. Only the courts and the Kings of the land can adjudicate on land matters. “Again, Police officers and men are to mandatorily put on name tags with their recruitment numbers above the breast pockets of their uniforms. Any policeman found on any duty post without his uniform should be arrested and charged to court.” On the new year, 2021, Maharaj Ji said he foresees boom in all the sectors of the economy, calling on Nigerians to rally round President Muhammadu Buhari who he said is now born again after the recent #EndSARS protest across the country. He however urged the President and the state governors to sit up and carry out their constitutional duties with respect to the citizenry that they were elected to govern.  