 … Deceased’s family seeks justice BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Osun State Police Command has disclosed how a 35-year-old Police Corporal, Rauf Fawale, was allegedly beaten to death by three officers of the Department of State Security in the state. The deceased policeman, father of three, attached to Dada Estate Police station, Osogbo, reportedly died in the hospital after being attacked by the yet to be apprehended secret police officers on Sunday, January 23. Fawale was said to have been beaten to a coma at a club house, River Side in Osogbo, by the three cops before he was rushed to the Osun University Teaching Hospital, in Osogbo. The Spokesperson for the Osun State Police Command, Yemisi Opalola, said one of the DSS officers, identified as David Olowoporokun; and the other two, had summoned the deceased to a club house, where they beat him black and blue. Opalola revealed that the State Commissioner of Police, Wale Olokode, had contacted the Director of DSS and promised to produce the three culprits. Meanwhile, the family of the deceased, on Tuesday, stormed the police command headquarters in Osogbo and demanded to have an audience with the Commissioner of Police. The deceased’s father, Rabiu Fawale, said Rauf was his first son, claiming that he was killed due to his recent promotion at work. He said, “I got to know about the incident from my farm settlement. I hurriedly left the farm settlement for Osogbo and went straight to UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital where he had been admitted. “My son was definitely killed because of the promotion he just received. They killed my son because of promotion. All I want from the government is to help me get justice so that my son will not die in vain.” The wife of the deceased, Balikis Fawale, who is nursing a month-old baby, said her husband left home for work on the day of the incident but was surprisingly brought home on Friday by one of his colleagues, identified as Tunji. “Tunji did not explain to me that anything had happened to my husband; he only advised him to get enough rest. I called his sister the following morning when I noticed that his condition was getting out of hand. That was how we took him from one hospital to the other before he finally gave up the ghost on Saturday after receiving treatment for a week,” she narrated. “I was informed that my husband was attacked by the DSS officials at the birthday party of his boss. He was promoted to the rank of Inspector about three weeks ago. My husband was murdered because of promotion,” she alleged. She called on the state government and the Commissioner of Police to come to her rescue. “My husband must not die in vain. I’m nursing a one-month-old baby. They should come to my aid to get justice for my husband’s death,” she pleaded.  