 BY OLUYEMISI ALE NIGERIAN health workers working in the Diaspora have warned the Federal Government to take more concrete steps to contain the spread of the second wave of COVID-19, saying more Nigerians are dying from the virus than what is being reported officially. Some of them who spoke in separate interviews with THE POINT, said more people were infected with the virus now than in the first wave but were very careless about testing. According to them, this is the reason it results in death in most cases before the status of the patient is even known. As of January 3, 2021, total confirmed cases in Nigeria stood at 90,080; 75,044 had been discharged, while 1,311 deaths had been recorded. The nation also recorded 917 new cases. A medical doctor based in the United States, Ade Ajaye, narrated how his friend only discovered that he was positive for COVID-19 when he was travelling out of the country with his family. “My friend had been falling ill frequently and I had been telling him to test himself but he had been relying on traditional herbs. Later he told me he was fine, that he had recovered. It was when he wanted to travel that he discovered that the five of them, including the kids were positive. “Well, thank God for the travel requirements, he might have collapsed at some point and it would look like the new strain of COVID-19 kills immediately. I think it is because we have lost focus. Many no longer believe it exists,” he said. Another health practitioner living in Canada, a nurse, Adaeze Olamide, said it was important for the Federal Government to make testing mandatory for citizens. Olamide, who said she had just taken her Vaccine shot, noted that the results could be a requirement for some very important activities like telling students not to resume until they produced the COVID-19 test results of themselves and their parents or guardians. “This way, we will not be too lackadaisical about this virus. It is also very unfortunate that while other countries are closing their airspace to UK in the wake of the latest variant of the virus, Nigerian government did not do so. That new strain, I believe, is with us there in Nigeria,” she said. “Here, if you’re going out without a mask, people see you like a mad man, but in my own country, it is those that wear face masks that are uncomfortable. We need to wake up. Government must do more now. It is bad I tell you,” she added. A Nigerian medical practitioner who resides in Belgium, Johnson Akilo, was more particular about getting vaccines in good time for Nigerians. He said it was foolhardy for anyone to read a conspiracy meaning to what was currently happening. “The vaccines will help a great deal. The Federal Government must work hard on getting this and also creating a good strategy of ensuring Nigerians get vaccinated,” he advised. Many state governments have tightened the COVID-19 rules again in their domains, following the rising cases and increasing deaths. In Lagos, the epicentre of the pandemic, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu directed civil servants from Grade Level 14 and below to work from home. Schools, which were, in an earlier statement, directed to resume on January 4, have been asked to remain shut till further notice. The Governor gave these directives just as he ordered worship centres not to hold services for more than two hours in the wake of the challenges being posed by rising COVID-19 cases. Accordingly, he said no gathering must exceed 50 per cent of the maximum capacity of the venue, while carnivals and street parties were banned in the state.  