 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE SOME pictures of President Muhammadu Buhari, which surfaced online, have put the Number One Citizen on the hot seat for flouting COVID-19 protocols during the revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress in Daura, Katsina State. The President was seen in the pictures, without a face mask, and without maintaining the stipulated social distancing while discussing with APC chieftains. This is coming barely four days after he signed the COVID-19 health protection regulations 2021 in Abuja. The legal instrument of the regulations provides a basis for the prosecution of defaulters. As provided in the Quarantine Act, Section 34 of the new law states that any offence under the regulations is punishable by a fine or a term of six months imprisonment or both. The law provides for the maintenance of physical distance in gatherings, while all persons in such public places must, among other things, wear face masks, wash their hands and have their temperature checked before entering such venues. The President, according to those who spoke in separate interviews with THE POINT, unfortunately flouted more than one of these regulations. “First, he was not wearing a face mask. Aside from the fact that he is an old man and must be well protected against the virus, he can also transmit it if he has it hidden somewhere to unsuspecting persons,” an activist, Olanrewaju Sulaimon, said. “Again, the picture that I saw showed that physical distance was not in their (APC leaders) dictionary on that particular day. It was like a crowd on a normal day. The President can’t be jailed because of immunity but this is a bad example,” he argued. An analyst, Chris Ndukwe, said he had already posted a comment on Facebook to draw the attention of Nigerians to the disregard for rules and regulations by the Number One citizen in the country. “Section 34 of the new law, as signed by Mr. President, states that any offence under the regulations is punishable by a fine or a term of six months imprisonment or both. If the President cannot go to jail, being the first public official to be caught publicly in the act, he should nominate Femi Adesina to serve the jail term for him,” he declared. The PDP, in a statement titled, “PDP Expresses Dismay By Buhari’s Violation of COVID-19 Law…Charges Nigerians Not to Follow Such Examples”, also described the flouting of COVID-19 protocols by the President as a huge national embarrassment and gross failure of leadership. The party, in the statement, signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said President Buhari, who should lead by example, was seen publicly violating the COVID-19 regulation, which he signed a few days ago. Ologbondiyan said, “It is indeed scandalous that while Nigerians are striving to obey the COVID-19 regulation, which stipulates the compulsory wearing of nose mask and physical distancing in the public, they are being confronted with reports of open violation of the law by Mr. President at the All Progressives Congress’ membership revalidation exercise in his hometown, Daura, Katsina State on Saturday. “We ask, with this violation, does the Buhari administration and its officials still have the rectitude to enforce sanctions on any other defaulter in the absence of necessary regrets by President Buhari and his party, the APC? “In this regard, the onus lies on President Buhari and the APC to clean up the mess by tendering an unreserved apology to Nigerians and take steps to observe necessary regrets over this violation.” 