 BY SALIU SALIU FORMER Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, has called out those he said helped President Muhammadu Buhari to secure power in 2015, asking them to speak up for the Fulanis in the South-West. The former governor said the persecution of the Fulani ethnic group because of the poor governance under President Buhari was unfair. Lamido, while speaking to journalists in Kano on Thursday, said Nigerians failed to understand that not all Fulanis voted for Buhari. He was reacting to allegations of criminality against Fulani herdsmen in the South West region, and the vacation order given to them in some South West states. In Ondo, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu gave an ultimatum for the herdsmen to leave the state’s forest reserves, while a Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, gave a seven-day ultimatum to the Fulani herdsmen to leave their settlement in Ibarapaland, Oyo State. At the expiration of Igboho’s ultimatum, there was a bloody clash in Igangan, which led to the killing of some people, and the burning of vehicles and other properties belonging to the Fulani men. Though there was a reprisal attack on Igboho’s house in Ibadan, the Sarkin Fulani, Salihu Abdulkadir, has held a press conference, accusing the Police of complicity and saying that he lost children, seven relatives and properties worth N500million in the Igangan incident. On what he described as the travails of the Fulanis, Lamido said, “They are reading Fulani through Buhari, who is also a Fulani. They failed to understand that not every Fulani supports Buhari. Even me, I am of the Fulani tribe but did not vote for Buhari. But, what Fulanis are going through in this country is unfortunate. “We are being persecuted, abused, endangered, called names, just because Buhari is one of us. This is not fair. This is unjust. “Today Nigerians are so blindfolded by the hate and apparent dislikes of Fulanis because of President Buhari’s misgovernance, forgetting that not all Fulanis voted for him and or like him… “Why have those from the South, who brought Buhari to power in 2015 failed to defend his people? Where are the Tinubus, Fasholas, Amaechis, Ngiges, Soyinkas, Rochas, among others? Why can’t they protect Buhari’s people?” He, however, urged Nigerians to accept Fulani herders as very peaceful people who pursue nature and live by nature, saying “they are never violent.” 