BY AYO ESAN THE Founder of One Love Family, Satguru Maharaj Ji, has told the Governors of South-West states to appoint Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, as the Head of the region’s security outfit, Amotekun. He said this would be a way of checking the activities of rampaging herdsmen kidnapping, raping, killing and invading farms in the region. Maharaj Ji, who was speaking with journalists at the Maharaj Ji Village in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State at weekend, said, “In view of Sunday Igboho’s commitment to the security of our people, there is nothing wrong bringing him in to head the Amotekun or any strategic security organ of government because the situation we are facing now demands calls for the use of patriotic and selfless soldiers to free the race from the evil grip of neo-colonialist agents.” He said there was a need to halt the unjustified campaign of calumny on Igboho, saying he should be given the honour he deserved. Maharaj Ji added that Igboho’s bravery was more appreciated because some of the state governors were afraid to speak out against the dastardly acts by herdsmen on innocent law abiding citizens, right in their ancestral homes. He said, “The creation is complete and nature has its way of throwing up a David to frontally take on Goliath during times of distress. “We are glad that Igboho’s steps have no doubt, facilitated compliance to the Ondo State Governor’s order that genuine herders willing to do business in the state should register with relevant government agency as the stoppage of night grazing. “We therefore urge other states across the nation, particularly down South, to adopt the measures as a template for curbing the criminal activities of herders, in order to bring sanctity to the states.” He also condemned the reported burning of Sunday Igboho’s house in Ibadan, saying those involved in the act must be ready to reap the fruit of their wickedness exactly a year after the act. Maharaj Ji also commended the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, for his effort to rid Ondo State of rogue herdsmen, who he said indulged in bizarre acts of brigandage and terrorism in the state, saying that the singular bravery had earned him the appellation of People’s Governor. He described the recent clash between soldiers and members of the Indigenous People of Biafra in Orlu as an indirect call for war. Maharaj Ji however said the South East Governors were confused and had betrayed the trust and confidence of their people. 