 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Caretaker Committee Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ebonyi State, Fred Udeogu, has raised the alarm over alleged plots by suspected thugs to set the party secretariat, along Enugu Abakaliki highway, ablaze. He alleged that thugs loyal to the sacked factional Chairman of the party, Onyekachi Nwebonyi, assembled on Sunday night to unleash mayhem on the party secretariat. The chairman specifically said one Mark Onu and Onyekachi Nwebonyi led the thugs that attempted to burn down the secretariat, alleging that Onu was the leader of a cult group he claimed was in charge of the affairs of Governor David Umahi’s administration. Udeogu, however, added that a group loyal to the caretaker chairman of the party, Fred Udeogu, saved the day by rushing to the secretariat and repelling the hoodlums. The party chairman, in a statement, said, “We had a ruling from a Federal High Court in Abuja last Thursday, and the ruling said that Onyekachi Nwaebonyi should cease from addressing or parading himself as a member of PDP or a shareholder in PDP, and that they should stay off the party secretariat. “By Friday, I was able to ask our Secretary to write to the security agencies in Ebonyi State and serve them the ruling. I know by this week, the security agencies will receive directives from their IGPs and director-general of SSS. If they do anything that is outside the directives, that will be their own risk.” He alleged, “Last night, Mr. Mark Onu and Onyekachi Nwebonyi led a motley crowd and made a concerted effort to burn down the State Secretariat of the PDP in Abakaliki. If not for the prompt response of some of our members, the building would have been razed down by this morning. They were resisted and repelled effectively. “Mark Onu also known as Chopper is the leader of the Cult Group. This Cult Group is the one at the helm of affairs in Umahi’s administration. This is the reason it has become impossible for the government to curtail the criminal activities of cultists that have ravaged the entire state. “Let it be further emphasised that the Governor has been aware of this cult group that is behind the insecurity in the state as he too is a member. He joined them in 2016. “There are photographs of him using their unique greetings signs in public – so, it is not a matter for pretence, he is openly showing his affiliation with cultists and is 100 per cent aware of the attack on our Secretariat last night. “This is their response to the Federal High Court Order restraining them from parading themselves as members/leaders of the PDP. We urge the general public to be vigilant as they go about their normal businesses. “We await the importance of the gathering of cultists in a state in dire need of security and safety of lives and properties. The lives of Ebonyians are far too valuable than the insane ambition of any political party or politicians.”  