 BY REBECCA AJANI THE Commandant of the Oyo State Security Network Agency, Operation Amotekun, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd), has debunked reports of a clash between his men and Fulani herdsmen in Ibarapa land and Oke Ogun areas of Oyo State. He explained that Amotekun launched six “clearance” operations in four Local Government Areas of the state, adding that suspected bandits attacked the team deployed to Ayete. Contrary to reports, the Commandant revealed that Myetti Allah members were part of the planning for the operations because of the full support the team got from Fulani leaders. He also disclosed that three bandits were killed by his men, while one of the Amotekun men was injured. While parading one of the suspected kidnap kingpins, identified as Sanni Bello, Olayanju said he was arrested in the forests around Aiyegun axis in Iwajowa Local Government Area. He noted that the Corps embarked on the operation of combing the forests, following incessant reports of wanton destruction of lives and kidnapping in the area. Olayanju said, “Contrary to any report you might have come across, there was no clash whatsoever between Fulani herdsmen and Amotekun in Ibarapa or Oke Ogun axis of Oyo State. “What happened was that we launched clearance operations in different locations around the thick forests of the four local governments that have suffered kidnapping and wanton killings in recent times. “When our men entered the forests at Aiyede, they were attacked and a gun battle ensued, which led to the death of three of the attackers. One of our men sustained injuries. “It was not a clash with the Fulani, because Fulanis were part of the planning of the operation and we raided the forests together. “We were in touch with Seriki who is the leader of the Fulani in the area. Even after our men were withdrawn on Saturday afternoon, we got reports that some Fulani were kidnapped in one location close to the area of operation. So they are working with us, because they are also victims of the dastardly acts of kidnapping in the area. “The incessant kidnapping and wanton destruction of lives necessitated the planning of a clearance operation in Lanlate, Igbo Ora, Igangan, Iganna and Aiyegun general areas in Ibarapa East, Ibarapa Central and Ibarapa North as well as Iwajowa Local Government Areas. “There were six teams in all comprising members of Amotekun, vigilantes, hunters and Miyetti Allah vigilante. “All the six teams had elements of these groups (joint team). However, at Igbo Ora, one of the teams had an encounter with two armed men, effected their arrest and recovered one double barrel rifle. “All suspects and weapons were handed over to the Divisional Police Officer, DPO Magoro Police Station, Igbo Ora at about 9 a.m. on Saturday. “In a related development, another team was attacked at about 9.30 a.m. in Igangan forest, Ibarapa North, while on the clearance operations at a settlement. The attack was repelled, resulting in serious injury to one member of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN) and three other suspects. Two dane guns were recovered at the scene. “In Iwajowa LGA, one of the teams also arrested a kidnap kingpin operating around Aiyegun axis. He was arrested with a locally made pistol and cartridges.”  