 BY REBECCA AJANI THE Police in Ondo have arrested a man, Wasiu Mamukuyomi, in connection with the kidnap of his three-month-old daughter by an apprentice in his wife’s tailoring shop. The apprentice, identified as Temitope Adeniyi, who reportedly kidnapped the baby, was said to have been dating the father of the baby and husband of the shop owner. The mother of the missing baby, Stella Babatunde, said, while speaking with journalists in Ondo Town, that her husband was the one who brought Temitope to her as an apprentice, under the guise that she was his friend’s wife. She said she later found out that they were actually having an affair. “My husband brought the lady to me on the 3rd of December, 2020 to train her in tailoring. But I noticed that they usually communicate on phone whenever we were together at the shop,” she claimed. She added, “On Saturday, 2nd of January, 2021, the lady came to the shop as usual. After bathing the baby that afternoon, she took permission from me to put the baby on her back. Then I gave her my ATM card to help me withdraw the N3,000 which a customer transferred to my account at a nearby POS stand. But she never returned. She disappeared with the new born baby and my ATM card. “After disappearing with my baby, I called my husband on the phone many times to inform him about the incident, but my husband refused to pick my calls. He was almost lynched when he came back from work and did not show concern for the missing baby. “My husband was later taken to Enuowa Police Station in Ondo, where he confessed that the lady in question was his girlfriend. He also confessed that he was the one who rented a room apartment for her at Eweje area of Yaba, Ondo. But he denied knowing anything about the disappearance of the child.” Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Tee Leo lkoro, confirmed the incident, noting that the father of the missing baby had been arrested. He said the baby’s mother suspected that he connived with the apprentice to kidnap their baby, adding that detectives had been dispatched to fish out the suspect.  