 … say Nigeria can’t rely on importation BY LINUS CHIBUIKE GOVERNORS of the 36 states of the federation have called for local production of COVID-19 vaccine, urging the Federal Government to fast-track this process rather than relying completely on importation. This was disclosed by the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, while briefing State House Correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday. The NGF Chairman said he was at the Villa to discuss issues of common interest to the governors, including COVID-19 vaccines, security and economic issues. On the COVID-19 vaccines being expected in Nigeria, Fayemi said there was a discussion on the need for religious leaders and top artistes, among others, to be vaccinated in public to boost the confidence of Nigerians in the vaccines. “The number one priority in vaccine management relates to public health and risk communication. I commended the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for at least, wanting to use Mr President and the Vice President as their publicity vehicles for reassuring those who may have their doubts about the use of vaccines, that this is no threat to them,” he said. “The good thing is that Mr President has agreed with me that he would convey to the PTF the necessity of using other influencers, maybe the Chief Imams, Bishops, top musicians and sports personalities. The more such people are seen taking the vaccines, the more the likelihood that resistance will break down in our various localities,” Fayemi added. He said the view was that, ultimately, Nigeria would really need to ramp up the manufacturing of vaccines locally. “There is nothing as good as having the ability to manufacture our own vaccines locally. We understand that there is a partnership with May & Baker, which is important for the Federal Government to really accelerate so that we can produce the vaccines here in Nigeria and not be dependent on what is coming from other parts,” he stressed. He said the need to accelerate the delivery of the expected vaccines was also discussed. “Those of us at the receiving end in the states know that this is an issue. We also need to ramp up our own preparedness, in terms of getting our states ready for vaccines storage, particularly the freezers and cold chains that will be required for that process,” he noted.  