 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE COUNSEL to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in the ongoing trial of a former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, at the Lagos Division of the Federal High Court, could not present his star witness on Friday. The Counsel, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN), said the star witness had returned from his trip abroad, but that he had contracted COVID-19 and was unable to make it to the court. This stalled the hearing, as Fayose’s lawyer also said the other witnesses he contacted were not available, adding that he was only told on Thursday that his principal witness was down with COVID-19. Fayose is being tried for an alleged N2.2bn fraud. The ex-governor and a firm, Spotless Investment Limited, were first arraigned on October 22, 2018, for alleged criminal breach of trust, theft and money laundering. The case was withdrawn from Justice Mojisola Olatoregun, following a petition by the EFCC. The former governor was therefore re-arraigned before Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke on July 2, 2019, Jacobs said, “Last session, I assured the court that my witness would be coming into Nigeria from abroad. The witness is in Nigeria. He contracted COVID. “I have been monitoring the progress of his health. He is the main witness in this matter. I only became aware of his status yesterday, but he is unable to make it to court as I was informed that he is still very frail. “The other witnesses I have whom I have contacted to come are unavailable. I have only one in court today. I intend to call four more witnesses.” The Counsel however noted that the only available witness for him on Friday was secured on Thursday, adding, “We are only able to file her processes this morning, but I sent it to my colleagues for the defence yesterday. I did not know it would take so long for the main witness to recover from COVID.” Counsel to the former Governor, Ola Olanipekun (SAN), observed that with regard to the witness Fayose’s counsel said was available in court, an additional proof of evidence was only filed on Friday morning. He said, based on the circumstances on the ground, they were not ready for the defence because the documents should have reached them days before the trial. Olanipekun said, “An advance copy, which was not yet filed was forwarded through Whatsapp to my telephone yesterday at about 4pm just as I arrived the Murtala Mohammed Airport. “The filed copy was served on us this morning shortly before my Lord came in. We have not had the opportunity of having the brief of the first defendant on the proposed testimony of this witness. “In the circumstance of the learned prosecutor, this document ought to have gotten to us some days before this trial, which would have facilitated our preparation to take this witness.” “Considering the fact that we have just been served this morning, we cannot take any witness for granted. We need to converse with the first defendant to properly prepare to take this witness. In the circumstances, we are not ready,” Fayose’s Counsel submitted. Counsel to the second defendant, Spotless Investments Limited, Olalekan Ojo (SAN), aligned with the submission of Olanipekun. He said, “I associate myself with the position of the learned defence counsel for the first defendant. I also confirm that I received through WhatsApp documents the prosecution intended to file around 4pm yesterday. “I sincerely hope that my learned friend for the prosecution does not intend your lordship to regard that as service, as that will be service of a document yet to be filed. “There is no correlation between not being able to produce that main witness and this additional proof of evidence filed in respect of an entirely new witness. “In the circumstances, the defendants cannot be reasonably expected to be served with additional proof of evidence around 8.56am and be expected to start with any proceedings. Our inability to continue was foisted on the defence by the prosecution.”  