 BY SALIU SALIU THE Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party in Kaduna State, Abraham Alberah, has been arraigned, alongside four others for alleged gross indecency, attempt to commit adultery and organising a nude party against laid down COVID-19 protocols. The Kaduna State Government had demolished Asher Lounge, venue of the botched nude party, on December 31, 2020, saying the building had no approval. The Lounge is owned by Aisha Yakubu, wife of the PDP spokesperson. The organisers of the controversial party had however said the publicity was aimed at attracting people to the party, saying it was not meant to hold as a nude party. They said this just as the owner of the lounge alleged that the Police extorted N120,000 from her and also made her lose her pregnancy. But the Police insisted in the charge sheet that the nude party had commenced when a team of operatives arrived at the venue. The operators of the lounge, workers and customers who organised the party were therefore arraigned on Wednesday before the Gabasawa Magistrate Court. The charge read, “Violation of partial lockdown order of the Kaduna State Government 2020, criminal conspiracy and attempt to commit an offence to wit public nuisance, obscene or indecent act, gross indecency and adultery. “On December 27, 2020 at about 21.30 hours, credible information was received at Sabon Tasha police station to the effect that a sex party was organised by some unknown persons to hold at a venue called Asher Guest Lounge located at Court Road, Sabon Tasha at Chikun local government area, Kaduna State to hold at about 19.00 hours. “On receipt of the information, a team of policemen from Sabon Tasha Police Station rushed down to the scene mentioned above and found the said lounge filled up with over 50 youths both male and female dancing almost naked with no face mask on any of them. “On sighting the policemen, the whole of the arena became chaotic as the said youths jumped from one corner to the other and escaped over the fence. Three suspects were arrested – Mr. Abraham Alberah, Umar Rufai and Suleiman Lemona while two others: Chimezie Kenneth, who organised the party and Marvellous Akpan.” The accused persons however pleaded not guilty to the charges against them, while the Magistrate granted them bail to the tune of N100,000 each with a surety who must own a property in Kaduna. The case was adjourned till January 20, 2021 for trial. 