 BY SALIU SALIU NORTHERN elders have raised the alarm that the entire north is still under siege of Boko Haram, banditry, kidnapping and other forms of criminality. According to them, it will take over 100 years to recover even if what they described as “war” stops. The northern elders, under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development, raised the alarm in a statement signed by their National Coordinator, Zana Goni. According to them, no school is open for academic activities in the region “except perhaps in Maiduguri metropolis of Borno State”. The elders added that the inability of the service chiefs to change the game against terrorists, bandits and kidnappers, threatening the continued existence of the region, was worrisome. The statement said, “We wish to confirm that the entire north is still under siege from Boko Haram, banditry, kidnapping and other forms of criminality. “This ugly security situation has been underreported. We are concerned about the poor media coverage. “The inability of the service chiefs to change the game against terrorists, bandits and kidnappers threatening the continued existence of the region despite the heavy investment made by the President so far to ensure restoration of peace, is no doubt worrisome to us.” It added, “We believe wholeheartedly too that this development is a source of great concern to all patriotic Nigerians out there. From what is on the ground, it would take the Northeast more than 100 years to recover even if the war stops today. “There is no school opened to academic activities in the region, except perhaps in Maiduguri metropolis of Borno State. “Farmers can’t go to farms anymore especially in the Northeast. We fear there may be severe famine if the situation is not immediately addressed.” The northern elders expressed their satisfaction with the appointment of Gen Buba Marwa (retd) as the Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. “We know his pedigree and we are sure he would deliver on his mandate,” they said.  