 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE A Federal High Court in Abuja has dismissed a suit challenging the emergence of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State. The court held that the suit, filed by one Mrs. Olajumoke Anifowoshe, was statute barred because it was not filed within the 14 days provided in Section 185(9) of the Constitution with regard to pre-election matters. Justice Inyang Ekwo, in the judgement, acknowledged that the suit, marked, FHC/ABJ/CS/881/20200, challenging the outcome of the APC primary election, held on July 20, 2020, was originally filed within 14 days, on July 26, 2020. He, however, said the plaintiff sued the Governor of Ondo State as against Akeredolu in person, which affected the commencement of the legal action. The amendment the plaintiff therefore made on the originating summons, substituting the Governor of Ondo State with Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, was done on August 13, 2020, which he said, was not within the 14 days allowed by the Constitution. The plaintiff, however, argued that the substitution of Governor of Ondo State with Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, as the first defendant, was a mere misnomer, but the Judge faulted this argument. The judge based his stand on the fact that since the original suit was defective, any correction or substitution effected by the plaintiff outside the stipulated 14 days could not be regarded as misnomer. Moreso, he said a misnomer had to do with a typographical error correction and not a significant correction like substitution of a party with a person in the course of proceedings. “A misnomer has to do with a correction of typographical error, not where a party is substituted. The substitution of a party in the course of proceedings is outside the realm of the concept of misnomer,” the judge said. According to him, the Governor of Ondo State is not the same as Akeredolu, because while the former is an office, the latter is a person. Justice Ekwo held that Rotimi Akeredolu participated in the primary in contention and not the Governor of Ondo State, as stated in the earlier suit filed by the plaintiff.  