 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE A commercial driver has allegedly killed an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, while the latter was controlling traffic at Mile 12, Ketu area of Lagos State. The LASTMA official, identified as Samson Olawale Akinmade, reportedly died on Wednesday, following the injuries he sustained after he was knocked down by the motorist. The driver, who reportedly assumed that he would be apprehended for obstructing traffic, allegedly sped off, knocking down the officer against the concrete culvert on the service lane and dragging him for about seven metres. General Manager, LASTMA, Olajide Oduyoye, disclosed this in a statement, saying the official, who he described as intelligent and dedicated, was only employed in 2019. According to him, the suspect, who has been arrested, was driving a blue-black Opel Space Bus with number plate AAA 74 GG. He was said to have knocked down Akinmade “at Demurin Street junction inwards Mile 12 while controlling traffic, leaving him with head and body injuries.” Oduyoye said the officer was immediately rushed to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, where he eventually died at about 1.00am as a result of the severe injury sustained. “This event is particularly sad because this was a young, intelligent and dedicated officer employed in the year 2019. (He) was very committed to his job but has been cut down in his prime by a careless and lawless driver, thereby depriving his family, the government agency, Lagos and Nigeria of a future leader in the making,” he said. Oduyoye explained that, while the late official was directing yellow buses away from the Demurin Street Junction and approached the motorist to park away from the road to pick passengers, the driver assumed he would be apprehended. He said, “The driver assumed that he would be apprehended for obstructing traffic and sped off, knocking down the officer against the concrete culvert on the service lane and dragging him for about seven metres. “He tried to escape through a street which turned out to be closed but was eventually arrested and handed over to the Police at Alapere.” The GM expressed the sympathy of colleagues at the Ministry of Transportation and LASTMA to the entire family of the deceased, assuring that the State Government would ensure the prosecution of the apprehended driver, in accordance with the law. He warned all motorists to desist from violating the State Traffic Law in order to prevent unnecessary accidents and deaths on Lagos roads and urged commuters to exercise patience at all times. 