 BY REBECCA AJANI THE death, in 72 hours, of three members of the family of popular Yoruba actress, Folake Aremu, widely known as Orisabunmi, has sparked off a debate on the likely cause of such a misfortune. Some of those who spoke in separate interviews with THE POINT said the cause of the deaths might have been COVID-19 related as the siblings could have had close contact with one another while one of them was on treatment. Others however said it could be a case of Akufa (a Yoruba terminology for deaths following a tragic death. It is usually of people related to the deceased). THE POINT had reported that barely 72 hours after the death of Orisabunmi, her younger sister, Janet Ademola, also passed on. The news of the death of Janet came as a shock to many, as Orisabunmi’s immediate elder brother, Steve Onisola, also died on Thursday, a day after the death of his younger sister. Onisola, who was the Technical Director of Kwara Falcons Basketball Club, died at the age of 71 after a brief illness. Orisabunmi died at the age of 61. Janet, who just passed on, was the last child of the family. The news of her death was broken on Saturday by her nephew, Gbenga Onisola. Janet had mourned her late sister, Orisabunmi, after her passing, saying she was her best friend who stood in as a mother to them all. Recall that Orisabunmi’s ex-husband, under whom she trained, had died just a few months before the death of the popular actress. The death, in quick succession, of these siblings has remained a mystery to many sympathisers. Ademola Adeeyo, an Ibadan-based historian, told our correspondent that aside from the fact that COVID-19 was in the air and the new variant was very quick at doing irredeemable damage, what would come to mind in the case of the family of Orisabunmi was Akufa. “Remember that Jimoh Aliu, her ex-husband died a few months before her death. It is not ordinary. I see this more as Akufa. The family members must take spiritual steps to stem the tide,” he said. On his part, Sangodoyin Alamu, a script writer, told our correspondent that what was happening in the family of the late actress might not be related to COVID-19. According to him, there might have been some spiritual steps taken in the past that could bring about such deaths if no one knows the antidote. “The family needs serious cleansing for this to stop. It’s not about being educated. It is the reality. This is more like a case of Akufa,” he said. But Anthony James said it was more like COVID-19. “They were close relatives. If this new variant is as deadly as the doctors claim. Family members can die in quick succession,” he submitted.  