 BY ABISOYE JOHNSON, ABEOKUTA SPOKESPERSON for Atiku Abubakar, the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 election, Segun Showunmi, has described the immediate past Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, as a leader who has demonstrated focus and a high level of discipline in the discharge of his duties. While congratulating Amosun on his 63rd birthday anniversary, Showunmi assured him that he had the backing, prayers and strong support of Ogun State indigenes, in appreciation of all he had done to move the state forward. The former Governor is the lawmaker currently representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly. Read the tribute: Ibikunle Amosun @ 63 “I celebrate Sen Ibikunle Oyelaja Amosun on the occasion of his birthday. I have good reason to say thank you for services rendered to Nigeria, Ogun State and, most importantly, the Egba nation. “We are a people of great preeminence, giving our history, from the days of our Egba United Government, right through our numerous heroes who have served well and to the admiration of all. “I have observed that Ibikunle Amosun has accounted himself honourably, demonstrating focus, tenacity, high level of discipline, and a higher than average can-do spirit. He has literarily rebuilt and repositioned our Ogun State capital, making it more befitting of our history. “I also note his purposefulness in all assignments given to him, as a senator in the 2003-2007 legislative year, as Governor of Ogun between 2011-2019, and now as incumbent Senator 2019 till date. “I make bold to say our son has done more than enough to deserve our commendation, praises and prayers. May it please Almighty Allah to uphold, sustain and bless him anew. “I am truly pleased with his sense of duty and carriage with all and sundry. I also say that Ibikunle Amosun has the total backing, prayers and strong support of his people for they find him fit for higher responsibilities. I appreciate him for being loyal, trustworthy and highly focused. Dear Egbon and worthy ambassador, Ibikunle Amosun, I wish you more glorious years and many happy returns. – Segun Showunmi  