 BY AYO ESAN THE Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership has hailed the Supreme Court for refusing a request by Alhaji Ali Abacha, a brother to the late Head of State, General Sani Abacha, to unfreeze accounts traced to him and relatives of the late Abacha in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Jersey, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. The Centre said if the case had gone the other way, family members of other national treasury looters and those commonly referred to as “Convicts of the Federal Republic (CFR)” would have approached the courts to unfreeze their accounts so that they could embark “on spending spree of the commonwealth of millions of impoverished Nigerians.” In a press release issued by the anti-graft coalition’s Director, Administration and Programmes, Tola Oresanwo, on behalf of its Chairman, Debo Adeniran, CACOL noted, “It would be recalled that in a unanimous judgment on Friday, a five-man panel of the court, led by Justice Sylvester Ngwuta held that Ali Abacha’s case was statute barred, as at when it commenced in April 2004, at the Federal High Court in Kaduna. “The judgment was in the appeal marked: SC/359/2010, filed by Alhaji Ali Abacha, said to be a brother of the late Gen Sani Abacha. In the lead judgment prepared by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, but read on Friday by Justice Ejembi Eko, the court held that, having dismissed a similar appeal in an earlier judgment given in February last year, it had no reason to depart from its reasoning in that case brought by Alhaji Abba Mohammed Sani on behalf of the Abacha family. “We at CACOL hereby commend the judiciary for this noble judgment. We believe though Abacha’s family members have the right to fair hearing and they can pursue their case from the lower court to the Apex court as they have done in this case, but we want to commend the intellectual sagacity and the deep legal insight displayed by the jurists in this case. They have laid a very good foundation for future legal jurisprudence.” It added, “If the case had gone the other way, family members of other national treasury looters and those we commonly referred to as ‘Convicts of the Federal Republic (CFR)’ i.e Convicted Publicly Exposed Persons would have approached the courts to unfreeze their accounts so that they can embark on spending spree of the commonwealth of millions of impoverished Nigerians. “We all know that this country is where it is today as a result of corruption in high places which is primarily in form of looting of treasury fuelled by sheer greed. “It is against this background that we are advocating for more stringent punishments and sanctions against those looters and thieves who continually perpetrate these heists with the belief that grand corruption is still a bailable offence in Nigeria and so, they could easily get away with it.”  