 NGOZI OKORIE CHUKWUEMEKA Okoroafor, a lawyer to the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, escaped assassination on Friday in Abuja, the leader of the Group, Nnamdi Kanu, has claimed. Kanu described the attempted assassination as a war on Biafra in a statement he personally signed, alleging that, based on the information available to him, the attackers were security agents. According to him, the IPOB lawyer has been making frantic efforts to secure freedom for some ladies abducted from Obigbo after the #EndSARS protest and taken to Abuja. He said Okoroafor had gone to the military base in Suleja to confirm that the IPOB people were held there, “including Elvis Ngozi and 109 others.” Kanu added that, on coming out to the Suleja- Bida Road, an unmarked white Hilux crossed the IPOB lawyer and opened fire on him. The statement said, “Following the assassination attempt made in Abuja today on Barrister Chukwuemeka Richard Okoroafor, the IPOB lawyer who has been making frantic efforts to secure freedom for our ladies abducted from Obigbo at the aftermath of the #EndSARS protest and taken to Abuja, I, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the Leader of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB, want to put the world on notice that the Nigeria Government has declared war on Biafra. “The assassination attempt was in their desperation to frustrate us from securing freedom for these innocent ladies who the uncircumcised and amorous elements in the security agencies have turned into their … slaves. “Barrister Okoroafor went to the military base in Suleja to confirm that our people are held there, including Elvis Ngozi and 109 others. On coming out to Suleja- Bida Road, an unmarked white Hilux just crossed and opened fire on him.” It added, “He told me that before leaving the base he discovered that his left back tyre was marked with black paint in the rim. He ran into Suleja Area Command and made a report. This testimony convinced me that the attackers are security agents. “Security agents attempted to assassinate IPOB lawyer to frighten other lawyers from standing in for IPOB members. The leadership of IPOB has come to realize that Nigeria has decided to engage IPOB in war.” Kanu called on the whole world to take note of what he called a barbaric attack against Okoroafor, a lawyer who was doing his professional job. He said, “Since they have taken it upon themselves to assassinate IPOB lawyers and to stop IPOB from challenging them with truth, they will soon reap the fruit of their evil seed. “We, therefore, demand the immediate release of all our ladies in their custody. May we reiterate that no amount of intimidation can make us give up the agitation for the restoration of Biafra. We are resolved to actualise this divine mandate in the shortest possible time.”