 BY BANYO TEMITAYO NINE students of Ifeoluwa Co-Educational Grammar School, Osogbo, Osun State, have been remanded in Prison and Juvenile Home for allegedly attempting to kill their school principal, Mrs. Mary Adeoye. The students, who were dragged to a Magistrate’s Court sitting in Osogbo on Thursday by the Police, are: Adebiyi Timileyin, aged 18; Tajudeen Akinlolu, 20; Waheed Abass,19; Ok Manni, 17; Mood Rid, 17; Ade Broom, 17; Leks Kiki,14; Money Freeze, 17; and 16-year-old Abd Ballings. According to the Police, the students were members of Aiye confraternity. They were accused of engaging themselves in an unlawful society and causing pandemonium in the school premises. They were accused of arming themselves with cutlasses, axes and charms, with intent to kill the Principal of the school, just as they allegedly destroyed Mrs Adeoye’s office. The Police further alleged that the students chased all the teachers of the school out of their offices. According to the charge sheet obtained by our correspondent, the defendants and others at large, committed the offence on February 17, 2021 at about 10:00am at Ifeoluwa Co-Educational Grammar School, Osogbo. The alleged offence contravened Sections 516, 64, 249(d), 213, 86, and 451 of the Criminal Code, Cap 34,Vol Laws of Osun State, 2002. Meanwhile, the defendants pleaded not guilty to the seven count-charges of conspiracy, breach of peace, unlawful possession of arms, engaging in unlawful society and threat to life. Defence counsel, Oladipupo Olatunbosun, prayed the court to admit the accused teenagers to bail, saying that considering their ages, the court should be magnanimous in its decision by admitting them to bail. But the bail application was opposed by the prosecuting counsel from the State Ministry of Justice, Moses Faremi. He requested that a formal bail application be made to the court. However, Magistrate Ishola Omisade ordered that Timileyin, Akinlolu and Abass be remanded in Ilesa Correctional Centre, while others were to be remanded in Juvenile Home at Testing Ground because of their age. 