 BY SALIU SALIU THE Kaduna State Government has confirmed the killing of 19 persons in Birnin Gwari and Kajuru Local Government areas of Kaduna Central Senatorial District. The government disclosed on Sunday that it confirmed from security agencies that the citizens were killed by armed bandits at Kutemeshi village in Birnin Gwari and Kujeni village in Kajuru. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs in Kaduna State, Samuel Aruwan, who disclosed this, said several other people were left with bullet wounds in the attacks that occurred on Saturday. He listed those who were killed in Kutemeshi village of Birnin Gwari LGA to include: Malan Sani Barume, Yahaya Bello, Amadu Dan Korau, Samaila Niga, Jamilu Haruna, Lawal Majiya, and Dan Malam Rabo. Others are: Dauda Kafinta, Hassan Mai Makani, Bashir Haruna, Lawal Ali, Mu’azu Haruna, Mai Unguwa Sa’adu and Harisu Bako. The Commissioner said some shops were also looted with valuable items carted away, adding that some injured persons had been moved to a neighbouring state closer to Kutemeshi for urgent medical attention, while others were in transit to an orthopaedic hospital in Kaduna. He said, “So far, only the 14 corpses have been recovered from Kutemeshi. The Kaduna State Government will provide updates on any emerging developments. “In Kujeni village of Kajuru LGA, the attackers burnt several houses, storehouses with foodstuff, warehouses loaded with building materials and a Church.” He listed those who were killed in Kujeni to include: Bulus Jatau, Hanatu Emmanuel, Bitrus Tuna, Yohanna Mika and Monday Ayuba, adding that Bulus Sambayi and Godwin Yakubu were injured. The Commissioner added, “Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who has been monitoring the security situation at the locations since Saturday morning, expressed sadness over the attacks. “The Governor who condoled families that lost their loved ones offered prayers for the repose of their souls and a speedy recovery for the injured. “He further directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to urgently provide relief materials to the affected communities.” “The government and security agencies are following up on a reported attack on Sunday morning around Kikwari village of Kajuru LGA, and will also provide an update as soon as feedback is received,” he noted. 