 … Commends IGR drive of immediate past administration BY ABISOYE JOHNSON GOVERNOR Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has promised to continue to deepen legacies inherited from past leaders of the state. He acknowledged the great contributions of past military and civilian governors of the state just as he reaffirmed his administration’s decision to be fair, just, inclusive and equitable in its approach to governance. The governor spoke on Wednesday in a State-wide broadcast to flag off the 45th anniversary of the creation of Ogun State. He called on youths and other residents of the state to join hands with his government by contributing to its development agenda. Recall that on February 3, 1976, the then Military Head of State, Late Gen. Murtala Mohammed, announced the creation of Ogun State, alongside six other states. On the giant strides by his predecessors, Abiodun said, “With humble beginning in 1976, Ogun had grown to become one of the viable states in Nigeria, grown its IGR to become the first among its contemporaries, and emerging as the fastest growing investment and commercial destination both within and without Nigeria.” The state’s IGR particularly grew admirably, during the tenure of the immediate past Govenor of the state, Sen. Ibikunle Amosun, from N700 million to about N7 billion monthly. Abiodun said Ogun State had continued to tower above contemporaries in all human endeavours as a result of the valid foundation laid by the founding fathers, past military and civilian governors, who he described as heroes. According to him, they gave their yesterday to give the people of the state today they are proud of. While noting that Ogun indigenes had continued to make their marks in different fields, he emphasised that his administration would continue to build on the strong foundation laid by founding fathers and past leaders. “My dear people of Ogun State, one cannot have this kind of inheritance and lay it to waste. As an administration, we will not content ourselves as proud inheritors of these worthy legacies. The inheritance also imposes a responsibility to create a better future that coming generations will be proud to inherit,” Abiodun noted. He said, “My dear people of Ogun State, 45 years is no mean achievement in the historical development of any state: whether a sub-nationality or a nation. We should have rolled the drums in celebration, but, we will not do that. This is not because of want of what to celebrate, but because of the need to adhere strictly to the prevention protocols against the COVID-19 pandemic. This celebration will be decidedly low-key. “With humble beginning in 1976, our dear state has grown to become one of the most viable states in Nigeria. We have grown our internally generated revenue to become the first among states created at the same time with us. “We are the fastest growing investment and commercial destination not only in Nigeria, but in the entire West African sub-region, attracting one of the highest Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and local investments “We are the leading state in the production of limestone, granite, glass sand. This is corroborated by the records of the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics in its 2019 report which states that capital importation into Nigeria amounted to $5.3bn, and Ogun state ranked 3rd only behind Lagos -Africa’s 5th largest economy – and Abuja – the nation’s capital – in the destination of these investments. “With only one university in 1982; then Ogun State University, now Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago Iwoye, having over 500 students, we have grown to become the education capital of Nigeria with 26 tertiary institutions. OOU alone now has over 50,000 students, offering graduate and post graduate courses in different fields of human endeavours.” The Governor appealed to Nigerians to eschew all forms of violence and learn to live together in peace, saying, “We must appreciate that there can be no development in an atmosphere of insecurity. “We must learn to manage our diversity and turn it into our strength. There can never be a better lesson in the management of diversity as a source of strength than from us in Ogun State. With over 10 sub-ethnic groups, this diversity has been a major force propelling the development of our dear state.” 