 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Presidency has said the Transparency International report, which indicated that corruption had worsened under the President Muhammadu Buhari administration, is a judgement on Nigerians and not on the President or his administration. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said this a day after the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, complained that the 2020 Transparency International Corruption Perception Index did not truly reflect the giant strides by the country in its fight against corruption. While speaking on Channels TV on Monday, Shehu reiterated the minister’s stand, noting that the Nigerian government could not stop TI from releasing their reports even though the Federal Government should be praised for its achievements. The Point had reported that the TI Corruption Perception Index, released last Thursday, showed that Nigeria dropped three places, its worst ranking in recent years. The country scored 25/100, which is one point less than the 26 points scored the previous year, and was rated 149 out of 180 countries. In 2019, Nigeria was ranked 146th out of 180 countries, with 26 points out of 100. Reacting, Shehu said, “We want to be complemented for the things we are doing well. It is not for us, as a government, to stop them (TI) from releasing reports. But based on the parameters used, Transparency International’s report is not a judgement on Buhari or his administration. It is a judgement on Nigerians. “The two (indices) they dwelled on are essentially Nigerian problems. They are talking about the political culture of this country. Is it Buhari that is a thug? We are not doing thuggery. And then they talked about the justice project; perceived corruption in the judiciary. These perceptions are essentially not correct.” He, however, agreed that there were challenges that were being worked on, but insisted that the current administration was winning the war against corruption. On why the Presidency faulted the TI report when it was not an indictment on the Buhari administration, the Presidential spokesperson said, “We responded because the report turned a blind eye on where we did extremely well. “Before we came, corruption was part of daily life and it was never denounced. With increasing education and awareness now, Nigerians are coming to accept that corruption is wrong and not the way to go.” 