 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Vice President Atiku Abubakar has raised the alarm that hunger in the Northern part of Nigeria, and in the entire country, is getting to an “unbearable and alarming” level. Atiku said Agriculture, which was the comparative advantage of the North was currently almost non-existent, as people could no longer go to the farm, owing to the worsening insecurity situation in the country. This position was conveyed in a statement by Oladimeji Fabiyi, who represented the former Vice President during the inauguration of the leadership of the North-East zone of the Nigeria Youth Congress for Atiku in Gombe State. Atiku, who said Nigeria had been badly broken, called for urgent measures to rescue the country from its current situation. The former VP, who was the Peoples Democratic Party’s presidential candidate in the 2019 election, was quoted as saying, “The hunger in Northern Nigeria and indeed the entire country is getting to an unbearable and alarming rate, as our farmers, fathers and mothers can no longer go to farm. “Agriculture is one of the comparative advantages the Northern Nigeria has over other regions in the country, but as at today, it is almost non-existent, unfortunately occasioned by insecurity in the region. “You hardly can drive 10 kilometres in any part of the North without being kidnapped or attacked by armed bandits. This is not acceptable; this is not the time to massage the ego of the nation’s leadership. This is the time to cry out for help.” He expressed appreciation to members of the National Youth Congress, who were from the six states of the North-East for the inauguration and their support, while urging Northern youths to protect their future. “Northern youths have great potentials. You have a huge role to play in what becomes of your region and Nigeria, moving forward. You must protect your future and you can achieve this only by supporting one of your own, who has shown commitment to your welfare, progress and development,” the statement said. 