 BY AYO ESAN THE planned arraignment of former Minister of Aviation, Stella Oduah, before Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, could not commence due to the absence some of the suspects. Though Oduah, who is the Senator representing Anambra North in the National Assembly, was present in court, the fifth and sixth defendants in the charge were absent. Prosecuting Counsel, therefore, applied for additional 14 days to serve the fifth and sixth defendants, saying it tried every means but was not able to serve them. Oduah was scheduled to be arraigned on a 25-count charge of money laundering alongside Gloria Odita, Nwobu Emmanuel Nnamdi, Chukuma Irene Chinyere, Global Offshore and Marine Limited, Crystal Television Limited, Sobora International Limited and China Civil Engineering Construction Company Limited (CCECC). One of the Counts read, “That you Stella Adaeze Oduah whilst being the Minister of Aviation, Federal Republic of Nigeria and Gloria Odita, whilst being the Company Secretary to Sea Petroleum & Gas Company Limited (SPGC), and an aide to the former Minister of Aviation on or about the 12th day of February, 2014, at Abuja, within the Abuja Judicial Division of this Honourable Court, used your positions to transfer the sum of N1, 629,250,000.00 (One Billion, Six Hundred and Twenty Nine Million, Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira only), from 1-Sec Security Nigeria Limited Account No. 2021756955 with First Bank Plc, to Global Offshore and Marine Limited Account No. 2022977296 also domiciled with First Bank Plc, which money you reasonably ought to have known forms part of the proceeds of an unlawful act and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 15(2) (6) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2011 (as amended) and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act.” When the case was mentioned, prosecuting counsel, Hassan Liman, SAN, informed the court that the Commission tried every means possible but was unable to serve the fifth and sixth defendants with the court processes. He therefore applied for additional 14 days to serve them. Justice Ekwo granted his prayer and adjourned till April 19, 2021 for arraignment. 