 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO THE Police in Osun State, on Thursday, arraigned a 35-year-old man, Adeyeni Adeyeye, before an Ile-Ife Magistrate’s Court in the state for allegedly beating the principal and a teacher of his son’s school. The Prosecutor, ASP Abdullahi Emmanuel, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on February 1, 2021 around 10:30am in the school’s premises. Emmanuel said that the defendant conspired with others now at large to commit a felony to wit: stealing, wilful damage, assault and conduct likely to cause breach of peace. He added that Adeyeye unlawfully assaulted the Principal of Oduduwa College, Ile-Ife, Mr Sanusi Ademola, by hitting him with punches and tearing his shirt. The prosecutor said the defendant conducted himself in a manner likely to cause breach of public peace by invading his son’s school (Oduduwa College, Ile-Ife) with thugs and assaulting the principal of the school. In the same manner, the Prosecutor argued that Adeyeye also assaulted a teacher in his son’s school, one Awoyeye Olajide, by hitting her with fist blows. Emmanuel expressed further that the defendant stole a car key, office key and a purse containing a cash sum of N50,000, property of Awoyeye Olajide. He said that the offence contravened sections 249(d), 351, 383, 390(9), 451 and 516 of the Criminal Code, Cap 32, Laws of Osun, 2002. The defendant, however, pleaded not guilty to the six-count charge of conspiracy, stealing, assault, wilful damage and breach of public peace. The defence counsel, Mrs Oluwatosin Ademola, pleaded for the bail of the defendant in most liberal term and assured the court that Adeyeye would provide reliable sureties. Ruling on the oral bail application, Magistrate A. A. Adebayo granted the defendant bail in the sum of N1million with one surety in like sum. Adebayo added that the surety must swear to affidavit of means, reside within the court jurisdiction, and must be a civil servant of Grade Level 12. He stated further that the surety must present a letter of appointment with the last promotion letter, three years tax clearance certificate, valid identification card as well as three recent passport photographs. The case was adjourned till March 3, 2021, for hearing. 