 BY NGOZI OKORIE TROOPS of 82 Division of the Nigerian Army have arrested 20 suspects identified as members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Aliyu Yusuf, said those arrested, including 16 men and four women, had been handed over to the Nigerian Police Force. Yusuf disclosed this while giving an update on the activities of IPOB members and the joint operation of the Force. The Army spokesperson said, “Through its unreasonable demand for secession, IPOB has continued to interrupt the security situation in 34 Brigade Area of Responsibility. The activities of the threat elements have led to an increase in organised crimes such as Armed Robbery, Kidnapping and other sundry criminal violent acts. “Recently, there have been various attacks on civilians, Police and military personnel on check points and escort duty. It is as a result of the activities of these criminal elements that appropriate superior authority directed the conduct of aggressive patrol within the general area to safeguard lives and property of law abiding citizens.” He said, on Thursday, January 7, 2021, following incessant robbery and killing of civilian and security operatives by suspected IPOB militia within Orlu Senatorial Zone, troops of the 34 Brigade were deployed in Orlu and its environs to commence effective Patrol and dominance of the general area to forestall the activities of IPOB. He added, “On Thursday 7, January 2021, own troops in conjunction with Nigeria Police conducted a Raid Operation of a suspected hideout of the Armed Group in Umutanze Community in Orlu Local Government. “An SUV Lexus 330 with Registration Number Lagos KRD 320 EY was intercepted with 5 occupants, suspected to be members of IPOB.  On sighting own troops, four of the occupants absconded, however, one Mr. Freedom Udochukwu Nwachukwu was arrested and handed over to the Police for further interrogation. “On Friday 22 January 2021, troops of 34 Brigade, in conjunction with the Imo State Police Command, carried out raids in Okporo/Ezenta and Akata axis of Orlu Local Government Area to recover the corpse of the Police Officer killed by members of IPOB.” According to Yusuf, during the raids, one IPOB member was killed, one Jeep was recovered, while various IPOB training camps were discovered and destroyed. He stated, “On Monday, 25 January 2021, own troops were ambushed at Banana Junction, Orlu Local Government Area by members of IPOB while escorting Army Headquarters Team, led by Director, Civil Affairs, Brigadier General HE Nzan, who came to inspect the Nigerian Army Civil Military Cooperation Project at Nkwerre. “IPOB Militia attacked own troops and during the encounter, four escort soldiers were killed and 4 AK47 got missing. One Hillux Vehicle was recovered. “In a Similar Development, on Wednesday, 17 February 2021, based on accurate intelligence reports, raid operation was conducted in the Forest close to Lilu Village in Ihiala General Area of Anambra State by combined troops of the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force and the Nigeria Police. “The operation commenced with Air Strike at about 171750A February 21 from Mi-35 Combat Helicopter on confirmation of the IPOB Camp/Hideout, while Ground Troops engaged the escaping IPOB criminals.” He added, “Thereafter, troops exploited further into the IPOB camp. The Militia were suspected to have escaped with their dead and varying degrees of gunshot injured members, taking advantage of the poor visibility during the preceding operation. “However 2 IPOB Militia were seen dead and troop completely burnt down their Camp. Items and Equipment Recovered from IPOB Training Camp include 1 AK47, 1 Local Made Pistol, 1 Dane Gun, 5 Local Cartridge Ammo, 2 IPOB Flags, 1 ESN Flag, 1 IPOB Sign Post, 1 Gen BTY, 1 Vehicle Battery, 1 Water Pumping Machine, 4 GD Black Belt, 1 Military Fragmental Jacket, 1 Mobile Handset, I Ladies Motorcycle, 4 Twine Rope, 1 Chain Saw.” The recovered items were handed over to the Police Headquarters Owerri for further necessary action, the spokesperson said. 