 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE CONTRARY to earlier reports on the allocation of COVID-19 vaccines to countries, the World Health Organisation said on Saturday, in Abuja, that it had not disqualified any African country from accessing COVID–19 vaccines through the COVAX facility. WHO specifically said Nigeria had received the highest vaccine allocation of 16 million doses, out of the 88 million AstraZeneca doses allocated in the first phase to Africa. This was disclosed by the WHO Representative in Nigeria, Walter Kazadi Mulomboo, during a joint press conference with the Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib, on the widely reported disqualification of Nigeria from receiving the COVID–19 vaccines. He explained that in addition to the Astra Zeneca doses, there was an initial limited volume of Pfizer vaccine available through COVAX. Demand for the initial allocation of 1.2 million Pfizer doses was exceptionally high, he noted, adding that Nigeria was among the 51 countries screened as “ready”. He said, “WHO has not disqualified any country in Africa from accessing COVID-19 vaccines through the COVAX facility, but rather is supporting all countries to access vaccines as quickly as possible. “Currently, all countries on the continent are expected to start accessing the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccines by the end of February. The vaccine is under review by WHO for Emergency Use Listing and the outcome is expected soon. Of the 88 million AstraZeneca doses allocated to African countries for the first phase, Nigeria has received by far the largest allocation, with 16 million doses. “In addition to the Astra Zeneca doses, there is an initial limited volume of Pfizer vaccine available through COVAX. Demand for the initial allocation of 1.2 million Pfizer doses was exceptionally high. COVAX received interest from 72 countries around the world, of which 51 countries were considered by the review committee as “ready” (Nigeria was among these countries) and 18 countries in total were finally chosen to receive initial Pfizer doses. “On the Africa continent, as of the 18 January deadline, COVAX received 13 submissions and a multi-agency committee evaluated the proposals of which 9 were recommended as ready to deploy the Pfizer vaccine including Nigeria. “Unfortunately, it was not feasible to provide each of these 51 countries with Pfizer doses, due to a number of factors including the limited capacity for Pfizer to handle many countries at once. Therefore, spreading the limited doses across all the 51 countries deemed ‘ready’ could have not achieved the intended public health benefit. “After epidemiological data was taken into account, the decision was taken to proportionally balance the number of self-financing and AMC Participants as well as Participants across all 6 WHO regions.” Meanwhile, Shuaib, the Executive Director, National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, added that the clarification became necessary in order to ensure that “just a few of us do not bring our country to ridicule.” 