 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Monday, flagged off a reinvigorated special security action plan, code-named, ‘Operation Puff Adder II’ to reinforce the ongoing fight against violent crimes in the country. The IGP said the special operation was aimed at reclaiming the public space from criminals that were bent on threatening the internal security order across the country and bringing them to book. This was disclosed in a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, CP Frank Mba, titled, ‘Stabilising Internal Security: IGP Flags-Off Operation Puff Adder II.’ The Intervention follows series of ethnic/herdsmen clashes and worsening security situation in many parts of the country. According to the IGP, the flag-off is the first phase of the operation targeted at the full restoration of peace and security in the North-West and North-Central Geopolitical Zones of the country. He said the operation was aimed at dislodging bandits from their current operational spaces and denying them space to regroup in other parts of the country. The statement read, “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has today, Monday, 15th February 2021 flagged-off a reinvigorated special security action plan, code-named ‘Operation Puff Adder II ’ to reinforce the ongoing fight against banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery and other violent crimes in the country. “The new special operation, which will be intelligence-led and community-driven, will be executed in sustained collaboration with the Armed Forces, the Intelligence Community and other sister security agencies. It is aimed at re-dominating and reclaiming the public space from criminals that are bent on threatening the internal security order across the country and bringing them to book. “The IGP, during the flag-off of the Special Operation at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, noted that Operation Puff Adder II is an initiative of the Force conceived from a deliberate and critical evaluation of the pattern and trend of crimes in the country. “With the Special Operation, there shall be a massive and well-planned deployment of both human and other operational assets of the Force to reinforce and consolidate on the successes and achievements of Operation Puff Adder I, launched by the IGP in April 2019. “The IGP further noted that the flag-off is the first phase of the operation targeted at the full restoration of peace and security in the North-West and North-Central Geopolitical Zones of the country. The operation is aimed at dislodging bandits from their current operational spaces and denying them space to regroup in other parts of the country. “It will also ensure that all arrested bandits and their collaborators are brought to book. In the long run, it is expected that the operation shall be replicated across other states of the Federation to deal with the security challenges inherent in those States. “The IGP, while assuring the Police operatives of adequate welfare provisions during the mission, charged them to be civil with law-abiding citizens but firm and ruthless with criminal elements who may want to threaten the safety of citizens in their Areas of Responsibilities.” The IGP assured Nigerians that the Force would continue to ensure stable security order across the country and urged the public to work with the Police and other security agencies by providing useful, relevant and timely information. 