 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE/span> FORMER Senate President Bukola Saraki has debunked reports that former President Goodluck Jonathan may join the All Progressives Congress, ahead of the 2023 presidential election, saying those disturbing him to join the ruling party should know that such will not happen. He said Jonathan had given the Peoples Democratic Party his word that he remained a PDP man to the core and would offer his experience, time and resources to ensure it returns to power. Saraki spoke to journalists on Tuesday after a visit by the PDP Reconciliation Committee to Jonathan in his Abuja residence, led by him. The former President has been having series of meetings with the President, key APC Governors and other stakeholders of the APC, which had sparked insinuations that he was being lobbied for the party’s 2023 presidential ticket. But he had been evasive in his response to questions surrounding such insinuations. On the meeting with Jonathan, Saraki said, “We are members of the national reconciliation and strategy committee set up by the party, and part of our task is to meet with our former President Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. “We are starting off with our former President and we are here to let him know what our plans are and also to hear his own views and advice on what we need to do and how to do it, as well as how we need to strengthen the party and reconcile aggrieved members in order to bring about unity and focus in our party. “He is also ready to work with the reconciliation committee to play his role. That is a great step for the party. We have put that behind us.” “All those people of the other party that would like to come and disturb our leaders. Our leaders are here and they are ready to work for the party,” he added. He pointed out that the meeting, which lasted for about 90 minutes, was very productive, saying, “It was a very useful meeting. He gave us his views and we are very happy. He reassured all of us of his commitment to the PDP and he told us that he is still ready to offer his time, experience and resources to strengthen the party and that is very strong and important for us. “Of course, you know there are funny issues going on but we’re leaving this place very happy.” Other members of the PDP reconciliation committee in the delegation included former governors of Cross River, Katsina and Gombe states, Liyel Imoke, Ibrahim Shema and Ibrahim Dankwabo, respectively. Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Pius Anyim; and former leader of the House of Representatives, Mulikat Adeola-Akande, were also present at the meeting. 