 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Ebonyi State Police Command has arrested a 32-year-old woman, one Victoria Chekwube, for attempting to sell her four months old baby boy, owing to hunger. Victoria, according to findings, is a commercial sex worker. The lady, it was learnt, was staying at the demolished market along the Ogbee Hausa axis, in the Abakaliki metropolis, where she became pregnant for a yet-to-be-identified man. Sources, who spoke to journalists on the condition of anonymity, said she became homeless after the demolition of the market and roamed the area, begging for alms. It was gathered that good spirited individuals, whom she approached with the idea of selling her baby, Victus Chekwube, informed the police about her plan, which led to her arrest. Narrating what led her into police net, Victoria said, “My name is Chekwube Victoria. I am 32 years old. I’m from Ebonyi State. I am a sex worker. I used to stay at Ogbe Hausa in Abakaliki here. “One of my customers, who paid me N5,000, slept with me without condom and after that day, I missed my period. So, this is why I came to be in this condition. I am suffering and I’m even finding it hard to eat. “This child, four-month-old Victus Chekwube, is my child. But I want to sell my child, because I cannot take care of him. I want to sell him for N40,000. I can’t guarantee the child’s safety, because I am suffering and I want to go and look for my future.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Loveth Odah, said Chikwube’s situation was pathetic. Odah said, “This lady here, whose name is Victoria Chekwube, told us (the police) that she is a commercial sex worker. She said she does not want to keep this baby (four-month-old Victus Chekwube) she is carrying. “She told us that she was looking for anybody who could pay her N40,000 for the baby. She said she wanted to open a beer parlour business, where she could earn a living. “She said she could not exactly say the particular customer that put her in the family way. She only told us that there was a particular day that many customers were coming and she was charging them N1,500 with condom, and N5,000 without condom. And that after that day, she missed her period. “All this while, we have been talking to her not to do something like this; but she is not willing to listen to us. We have tried talking to her to know the value of her own baby and the pride of womanhood. She refused. “She even told us that the safety of the baby was not guaranteed if we allowed her go home now, with the baby. Victoria told us that she would throw the baby away and then face her future.” “The Command has decided to take her to the Ebonyi State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. We are sure they should understand how best to handle this kind of situation,” she noted. 