 BY BIMPE ADEYEMI/span> ATTORNEY-GENERAL of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has said, owing to the constant mobility of herders across the different belts of Nigeria, the Federal Government may need to consider setting up an agency for pastoralism, which will be regulated by law. He said this might provide recipes for resolving protracted farmer-herder conflicts. According to him, the proposed commission may engage in or facilitate in-depth analytical studies with a view to providing lasting solutions for the benefit of people and the country. Malami gave the recommendation while delivering his address as a Special Guest of Honour at the Peace, Unity and Security Lecture Series, in Abuja, on Tuesday, adding that there was also a need to revitalise the Nomadic Education Commission. He said this would complement the efforts of the government in resolving the farmer-herder clashes. The AGF said, “Nigeria is predominately agricultural in nature and by geography. To that extent, there is constant mobility of herders across the different belts of Nigeria. It is perhaps time to consider the setting-up of a commission for pastoralism regulated by law. “This might provide recipes for resolving protracted farmer-herder conflicts. The commission may even engage in or facilitate in-depth analytical studies with a view to providing lasting solutions for the benefit of people and the country.” He listed ways to achieve a peaceful Nigeria to include: strict adherence to the rule of law, respecting the sanctity of the fundamental human rights in all ramifications, noting that there should be freedom of movement and the right of citizens to stay at whatever part of the country they chose to. He said these and other provisions, as contained in Chapter 4 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, remained the fulcrum for a peaceful society. “The better approach towards resolving the (farmers/herders) crisis over the short, medium and long terms, is to directly involve the stakeholders in coming up with solutions at the conception, implementation and monitoring phases,” he said. 