 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO A 19-year-old student (name withheld) of Oduduwa College, Ile-Ife, has been arrested by the Osun State Police Command for allegedly conniving with his colleagues to beat the school principal, Ademola Sanusi, to a state of coma. Immediately the students descended on Sanusi, some teachers around the scene of the incident fled the place to avoid being beaten black and blue, alongside their principal on Friday. The student who was said to be the arrowhead of the evil act is presently being detained at the state police command, helping the police to fish out his other fleeing colleagues. It was learnt that the teacher was punched from the right, left and centre by the violent students who descended on him and further threatened to teach him the bitter lesson of his life. Speaking on the matter, the spokesperson for the police command in the state, Mrs Yemisi Opalola confirmed the beating but said that the perpetrator of the act had been arrested. The police spokesperson further hinted that investigations were ongoing on the matter with the assurance that the perpetrators of the callous and inhuman act would not go scot-free. She, however, noted that relevant clues that would help the police in their investigations were now being gotten from the arrested offender and expressed optimism that, in no distant time, the law would take its course. In his reaction, the Osun State Commissioner for Education, Folorunso Oladoyin, condemned the act he described as indecent and uncultured. He maintained that the 19-year-old culprit and his gangsters would not go unpunished and expressed disappointment at the untoward act, arguing that he knew students of public schools in the state to be disciplined, cultured and well behaved. Oladoyin, however, warned against such callous and rude acts in the future, saying such incidents would not in any form or manner be tolerated henceforth in all Osun public or private schools. He vowed that the state government would make scapegoats of any student caught in any act of indiscipline by being made to face the full wrath of the law. The Commissioner further advised them against truancy and hooliganism that could disturb the peaceful atmosphere of all schools in the state. 