 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI THE Youth Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party Caretaker Committee in Ebonyi State, Obinna Iteshi, has appealed to the Chief Judge of Ebonyi State, Justice Anselm Nwigwe, to ensure quick dispensation of justice in the ‘burglary’ case instituted against him, irrespective of political affiliations of the parties involved. The youth leader made this appeal while raising the alarm over an alleged undue transfer of Chief Magistrate Chinedu Agama, who was handling his case, from Abakaliki to Onueke Magisterial District. Iteshi called for the return of the chief magistrate to the Abakaliki Magisterial District and insisted that the bail granted him (Iteshi) was in accordance with the ethics of the law. Speaking with THE POINT’S correspondent in Abakaliki, the youth leader alleged that the Onyekachi Nwebonyi faction of the PDP was working in collaboration with the state Attorney General, Cletus Ofoke, to keep him behind bars for no just cause. Iteshi alleged that some days after the transferred chief magistrate granted him bail against the faction’s wish, they worked out his immediate transfer out of the magisterial district. According to him, the implication of the prompt transfer is that the new magistrate posted from Onueke district to replace the former may rearrest him and start his case afresh in line with what he described as the orders of the state government. Recall that Iteshi and two others – Ngamgbo Chukwunonso and Nwakpa Chibuzor – were arrested when the PDP caretaker committee went to take over the state Secretariat recently. They were later arraigned a few hours after the arrest by the Ebonyi State Police Command before a Magistrate Court sitting in Abakaliki for alleged burglary, but were granted bail. Recall that the national leadership of the PDP had sacked the Onyekachi Nwebonyi-led PDP executives in Ebonyi State. The Fred-Udeogu-led Caretaker Committee, on its part, had approached a Federal High Court in Abuja where it obtained an order restraining Nwebonyi and his group from parading themselves as Executive Committee members of the PDP in Ebonyi State. Armed with the court order, the Udeogu-led members of the party, had gone to the party’s Secretariat, apparently to resume normal party administration, when police allegedly clamped down on them. 