 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE World Health Organisation has said Nigeria was not shortlisted for the first round of supply of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. WHO Regional Director for Africa, Matshidiso Moeti, noted that Nigeria was disqualified based on the inability to meet the standard requirement of being able to store the vaccines at the required -70 degrees Celsius. This is in spite of the Nigerian government’s position that the country is ready to receive the vaccines in a few weeks. Recall that the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, had said this, noting that Nigeria was one of the 12 African countries that had indicated interest, of the 92 qualified countries. But the WHO Regional Director said at a virtual conference that only four African countries would benefit from the first allocation of 320,000 vaccines. WHO said 13 African countries expressed interest in participating in the initiative, and were shortlisted based on current mortality rates and capacities to deliver the vaccine, including storing it at minus 70 degrees Celsius. Nigeria did not meet the criteria. Moeti said, “In addition, around 320,000 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine have been allocated to four African countries: Cabo Verde, Rwanda, South Africa and Tunisia. Deliveries are also expected later on in February. “To access an initial limited volume of Pfizer vaccine, countries were invited to submit proposals. Thirteen African countries expressed an interest in participating in the initiative, and their proposals were evaluated based on current mortality rates, new cases and trends and capacities to deliver this vaccine, including to store it at minus 70 degrees Celsius. “I have to say that this was a challenging process as we know all countries want to start vaccinating their populations. The supplies were limited but we are glad that we will have a number of countries start and we look forward to working with the other countries to expand this vaccine delivery.” 