 BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE OFFICIALS of the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency, on Tuesday, arrested a passenger who travelled into the country from Sao Paulo, Brazil, with cocaine worth N7bn at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport. The passenger, identified as Ukaegbu Bright Onyekachi, flew Ethiopian Airlines from Guarulhos International Airport, Sao Paolo, Brazil, via Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. He was arrested at the E-Arrival wing of MMIA, with cocaine weighing 3.30kg. But the suspect claimed that the check-in luggage was given to him by a Nigerian based in Brazil, who he identified as Kingsley, noting that he did not know that Cocaine was concealed in the luggage. Commander, MMIA, Ahmadu Garba, who spoke on Ukaegbu’s arrest, said the drug was concealed in 68 T-shirts, adding that the mode of concealment was tricky. Garba disclosed, “The total weight of the seized drug is 3.30kg. It is not really a significant seizure when you compare it to the 8.5kg cocaine that was seized recently. But when you look at this seizure, the mode of concealment is very tricky. Our officials have to be experienced to discover this. “Drug trafficking is a huge money business and definitely, anything that has to do with money, people will want to do it. I want to say that the COVID-19 pandemic slowed them down and I want to believe they want to meet up with the lost time. “However, during the pandemic, my officers had enough time to do some refresher courses, especially online. I want to say the training we had during this period had helped our officials to learn some of the ingenious ways they conceal these drugs.” According to him, the NDLEA under its new Chairman, Buba Marwa, has zero tolerance for crime. In his confessional statement, Ukaegbu said he was a cooperative attendant in Brazil, and that he had been in the country for five years. He said,.“I was not aware that the drug was in my check-in luggage. The person that handed over the luggage to me told me there was nothing inside the bag. I thoroughly checked the bag for drugs. What I saw there were clothes for children and adults. “He was someone I met there as a Nigerian and his name is Kingsley. I don’t have his contact and he promised that someone will come today (Tuesday) to collect the luggage from me. I didn’t have the phone contact of Kingsley. “This is my first time of being caught in this web. I have never been found or in possession of any drug in my life. This is my first time of experiencing this and my first time of seeing drugs.” 