 BY AYO ESAN AHEAD of its proposed conference on security, the Peoples Democratic
Party has called on the United States and other members of the international community to prevail on President Muhammadu Buhari to take decisive steps to protect Nigerians and curb escalated violence, terrorism and banditry ravaging the country under his watch. The party also tasked President Buhari to respond to widespread cry for credible elections in Nigeria by making personal commitment towards accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act, to among other things, give statutory force to simultaneous electronic transmission of results and use of card readers in elections. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, made these demands while presenting the position of the party at a crucial meeting with the Political Officer of the United States Embassy in Nigeria, Jerry Howard, at the PDP National Secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday. Secondus lamented the horrible level of insecurity; increased terrorism, wanton killings and kidnapping in the country with the Buhari administration failing to demonstrate the capacity to protect the citizens. The PDP National Chairman noted that this was the reason the PDP, as a
party that had the interest of Nigeria at heart, was putting together a
non-partisan national conference on security. “Everyday, our nation is confronted with reports of gruesome killings,
kidnapping and unrestrained destruction across all parts of our country. “As a party and as patriotic citizens, we can no longer continue to watch. That is why we are putting together a non-partisan conference on security,” he said. The PDP chairman also expressed anxiety over an impending food crisis in our country if the security situation, which had crippled agricultural and economic activities, was not addressed. On electoral reforms, the PDP expressed worry that Nigerians had lost interest in the electoral system due to the manipulations being witnessed under the APC administration and urged President Buhari to leave a legacy of credible elections by ensuring accelerated amendment to the Electoral Act. Secondus insisted that such amendment must ensure a “legal backing for use of card readers for elections as well as electronic transmission of results, as witnessed in the 2020 Edo governorship election.” Noting that the PDP was the only hope to restore peace, national cohesiveness and save Nigeria from collapse, the PDP National Chairman stressed that the party would remain steadfast in its ideals, adding that it would never change its name or any of its identity. “We will not change our brand. Our strength is in our name, the PDP, and we are not in any contemplation of changing our name. It does not matter how many times other parties changed their names. Our name remains the PDP,” he said. Earlier at the meeting, Howard had assured of the continued support of the United States towards the deepening of democratic practice in Nigeria. 