 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Vice President Atiku Abubakar said, on Sunday, that he was fulfilled that his ideas which were criticised by the All Progressives Congress government had now been embraced by the same administration. He said the President Muhammadu Buhari administration that once failed to see the wisdom in what he described as his sound economic policies had now embraced reason, by announcing the privatisation of the nation’s refineries and other assets. Atiku, in a statement he personally endorsed, said he had, for decades, championed the privatisation of the Nigerian economy and the full deregulation of the oil and gas sector, among others. He said, “For decades, I have championed the privatisation of our economy and full deregulation of our oil and gas sector, amongst other sectors, for greater service delivery and efficiency. “As chairman of the National Council on Privatisation, I advanced these policies which saw our economy achieve six per cent Gross Domestic Product growth and created jobs for the masses of our people, and amass the national wealth that enabled us exit the debt trap, and secure our financial independence. “Even though my ideas were scorned by the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government over the years, I am nevertheless most fulfilled that an administration that once failed to see the wisdom in these sound economic policies, is now facing reality and has now embraced reason, by announcing the privatisation of our refineries and other assets, which have not always prospered under public management. “It is always better late than never. And I commend the Federal Government for coming on board. I urge that the privatisation process be as transparent as possible, as that is the only way to ensure that Nigeria reaps the greatest economic benefits from this policy. “It was never about me. My interest has always been the peace, prosperity and progress of Nigeria, and I am happy to share these ideas, and others, with the government of the day, for the betterment of our nation and its people.” 