 BY AYO ESAN THE Commandant of the Oyo State Security Network Agency, Amotekun Corps, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd), has declared that Ibarapaland is safe and free of killer herdsmen and kidnappers. The Commandant, who said this in a statement made available in Ibadan on Monday, added that he would volunteer to lead anyone interested in taking a tour of parts of Ibarapaland earlier hit by herders/farmers crisis. He also denounced some audio and video posts on the social media, which raised what he called “clearly unfounded alarms” about the Ibarapa security situation, saying that he had been moving in and out of the area for days now. Recall that a post on the viral video on a Peoples Democratic Party WhatsApp platform in Oyo State, had caused a disagreement that reportedly led to the exit of Governor Seyi Makinde from the platform. But according to the Amotekun boss, farmers and law abiding people in the area are going about their businesses without molestation. The statement read,  “Anyone desirous of finding out the truth about the security situation in Ibarapaland contrary to the video/audio being circulated in various fora can key into this opportunity. “I will personally provide escorts to and from Ibadan to Igangan general areas anytime this week. You can organise yourselves and inform me if you are interested in finding out the true position of things in Ibarapaland. “I will be ready to move, just give me 10 hours headstart. I am in Aiyete and I’ve been moving around Ibarapaland freely. No one has reported any adverse security issue to me apart from isolated case involving a fulani man said to have been killed in his house in a remote village  around Eruwa in Ibarapa East on Saturday, by yet to be identified assailants. “No security challenges observed in Ibarapa Central and North contrary to rumours being peddled. We are fully on the trail of those responsible for the said murder in conjunction with other security agencies and we assure all that the attackers and their motives will soon be uncovered.” 