 ABISOYE JOHNSON THE Ogun State Police Command, on Friday, arrested and detained the Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Oludare Kadiri,  for allegedly leading thugs to invade the residence of the Secretary to the State Government, Tokunbo Talabi. The attack on Talabi’s residence in Oru-Ijebu, Ijebu North Local Government Area of the state, was linked to alleged hoarding of materials in the ongoing APC membership registration and revalidation exercise. Kadiri, who represents Ijebu-North in the Assembly, was also accused of leading thugs to vandalise the residence of a former lawmaker in the state, Adebiyi Odugbesan. The Deputy Speaker, who allegedly accused the SSG of hoarding registration materials, has been detained at the Criminal Investigation Department of the Police headquarters, in Eleweran, Abeokuta, the state capital. Police spokesperson in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the arrest of Kadiri, noting that no one was above the law. The PPRO said he would be charged to court once investigations were concluded. “Some people reported him to the police, accusing him of leading thugs to the house of a former lawmaker where they attacked him and vandalised his house. Another person also reported that he led thugs to the residence of the SSG and also vandalised the SSG’s house,” Oyeyemi explained. The police spokesperson added, “A Supervisory Councillor in his local government also reported that, he (Kadiri) forcibly seized the registration materials and when the police went there to recover the materials, this same man led about 20 men and assaulted the Supervisory Councillor in the presence of the police and also held the policemen hostage for almost two hours. “Nobody is above the law, anybody who runs foul of the law has to face the music. That was why he was arrested and is being investigated and he will be charged to court after the conclusion of the investigation.” The Deputy Speaker has however denied the allegations against him, saying that the stories were concocted to tarnish his political image. He said through one of his aides that the SSG was behind his arrest, noting that he was also plotting his impeachment.