 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO OSUN State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Irepodun and Orolu Local Government Areas of the state, following the violence that broke out between Ilobu and Erin-Osun communities on Saturday. No fewer than two persons have been reported dead during the community clash that ensued on Saturday between the two communities. It was gathered that a man was shot dead on Sunday morning while another died of gunshot wound around 11am same day. About four houses were said to have been destroyed, while six persons sustained gunshot injuries in the communal clash. The crisis, it was gathered, started around 3pm on Saturday at Oke Awesi, one of the disputed areas. It was further gathered that land demarcation being done by the National Population Commission, last Tuesday, fuelled the long-term land dispute between the two communities. However, men of the Nigerian Army have been deployed to the two communities to restore peace. A resident of Ifon community, in the local government area, Waheed Alao, urged the government to act fast in order to stop the loss of lives and find a lasting solution to the communal crisis. According to a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Wole Oyebamiji, on Sunday, the declaration of curfew became necessary to douse tension in the troubled area. The curfew would subsist until further notice, he said. Governor Gboyega Oyetola had ordered immediate deployment of armed policemen with support from the Army to restore law and order. The statement read in part, “As a responsible and responsive government that took the sacred oath to protect the lives and property of our citizens, we believe that the declaration of curfew is the way to go in this circumstance. “By this, security operatives have been directed to arrest and prosecute any person found violating the curfew and those responsible for the violence. “All citizens and residents of the affected Local Government Areas are enjoined to comply with this directive as any person found contravening this order shall be made to face the wrath of the law. “Government enjoins all our citizens to be peaceful and to be law abiding as all efforts shall be made to protect them and their property.” 