 BY AYO ESAN THE Peoples Democratic Party has said the outburst by former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Bisi Akande, has further confirmed revelations that the APC membership
revalidation and registration exercise is a huge scam designed to allot fictitious figures and inflate the APC membership register. The PDP also mocked the APC on the free for all fight by desperate factions over control of allocated figures, at what it called its phony membership revalidation exercise, held at the Banquet Hall of the Kwara State Government House, Ilorin. The party said this further exposed the exercise as a monumental swindle. The PDP, which made this known in a press release signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Thursday, also lampooned APC leaders over the public apathy that it claimed had greeted the exercise, despite the deployment of huge financial resources, stating that such was a further confirmation that Nigerians had rejected the APC. The party said Nigerians were already aware that the purpose of the APC membership revalidation exercise was to produce inflated membership figures to assist the APC allocate fictitious votes for itself in the 2023 elections; a scheme it said was dead on arrival. It said, “Moreover, no Nigerian would want to join a party of fraudsters, manipulators, political bandits and liars, which has ruined our country and expended its goodwill on the altar of violence, deception and insensitivity to the needs of the people. “The world watched the show of shame as APC members clashed in bloody brawl, assailing and inflicting injuries on one another with dangerous objects and destroying public property over control of list of fictitious members. “The PDP has only but pity for delusional APC leaders who are yet to come to terms with the fact that the APC as a party is already dead and that Nigerians cannot be swayed by a fake membership revalidation and a conjured membership figure.” The PDP commended Akande for his courage in speaking out on the shenanigans in the APC, including the antics of what it described as the illegal national caretaker committee, adding that its meddling with the party’s membership register further confirmed revelations of the fraud inherent in the exercise. “We also note Chief Akande’s declaration on the waste of resources in the scandalous exercise, which further shows APC’s insensitivity to the plight of sufferings Nigerians,” the party said. It, however, counseled Chief Akande and a few well-meaning Nigerians still trapped in the APC, not to continue to waste their energy and goodwill “on a dead and rejected party.” “Our party therefore urges Nigerians to continue to disregard the APC and remain steadfast in rallying on the PDP’s platform in the collective effort to rescue our nation from the misrule of the APC,” Ologbondiyan noted. 