 FOLASHADE KEHINDE THE Nigerian Army has described the allegation of extortion against its personnel in Edo State as a deliberate misrepresentation of facts to tarnish the image of the Military. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, said this in a statement on Monday, while reacting to a video on social media, alleging that Army officials were collecting N1,000 bribe from luxury buses along the Agbor-Benin road. Yerima said the analysis of the video and several confirmatory enquiries by the Army revealed that the said allegation was a deliberate orchestration of falsehood and gross misrepresentation of facts. “A situation where deliberate misrepresentation of facts and fabrication of outright falsehood are being orchestrated in the social media to tarnish the image and reputation of the military is not and should not be acceptable,” he stated. The Public Relations Director assured that the Nigerian Army would remain a professional force that respects the fundamental human rights of the citizenry in line with global best practices, and would neither condone willful breach of law and order nor tolerate indiscipline on the part of its personnel. He explained that the Edo State Government had imposed a state wide curfew, following the #EndSARS protest, which had yet to be reviewed. This, he said, was the reason motorists usually parked a few meters away from the check point mounted by soldiers to wait for the reopening of the road by 05:00hrs daily. He added that the issue of the road closure had been a long time problem commercial drivers who ply the road at night, especially those who argued that the road was a Federal Government road and not under the jurisdiction of the Edo Government. “The isolated protest happened on February 17 at about 2230hrs. This situation was brought under control professionally by troops who were conscious of the rules of engagement and code of conduct for internal security operations,” the Army Spokesperson noted. 