 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE United States has finally endorsed Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala for the post of Director-General of the World Trade Organisation. This endorsement, which had been long awaited, came on the heels of the withdrawal of the only other contender, South Korea’s Trade Minister, Yoo Myung-hee, from the race. The US’ endorsement was contained in a statement from the Office of the United States Trade Representative. While congratulating Myung-hee on her strong campaign for the position, the US noted that Okonjo-Iweala was widely respected for her effective leadership and had proven experience managing a large international organisation with diverse membership. The statement read, “The United States takes note of today’s decision by the Republic of Korea’s Trade Minister Yoo Myung-hee to withdraw her candidacy for Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO). “The Biden-Harris Administration is pleased to express its strong support for the candidacy of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the next Director General of the WTO. “Okonjo-Iweala brings a wealth of knowledge in economics and international diplomacy from her 25 vears with the World Bank and two terms as Nigerian Finance Minister. She is widely respected for her effective leadership and has proven experience managing a large international organization with a diverse membership. “The Biden-Harns Administration also congratulates Minister Yoo Myung-hee on her strong campaign for this position. She is a trailblazer as the Republic of Korea’s first female trade minister and the first candidate from Korea to advance this far in the Director General selection process. “The United States respects her decision to withdraw her candidacy from the Director General race to help facilitate a consensus decision at the WTO. “It is particularly important to underscore that two highly qualified women made it to the final round of consideration for the position of WTO Director General – the first trme that any woman has made it to this stage in the history of the institution. “The United States stands ready to engage in the next phase of the WTO process for reaching a consensus decision on the WTO Director General. “The Biden Administration looks forward to working with a new WTO Director General to find paths forward to achieve necessary substantive and procedural reform of the WTO.” 