 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO NOTWITHSTANDING the abuses and threats rained on him by Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has forgiven the Yoruba activist. Ooni’s Director of Media and Public Affairs, Moses Olafare, made this known on Thursday while answering questions from newsmen in Ile-ife on the recent activities of the Yoruba activist who allegedly spoke derogatorily about the monarch. Olafare said the royal father forgave Igboho because he had tendered an apology, adding that Ooni could not bicker with the Yoruba activist, whom he described as “one of his sons.” “Sunday Igboho still remains a son to the Ooni and he had forgiven him when he had tendered an apology via a video clip he produced via social media yesterday evening,” Olafare said. The monarch’s aide however revealed that the unreserved apology tendered by Igboho was masterminded by the Olugbon of Ile-Igbon, Oba Olusola Alao, who called the activist to advise and warn him of the consequences that might follow his misconducts towards the custodian of Oduduwa, Ooni of Ife, whose sons and daughters are the Yorubas he claimed to be fighting for. He said, “Before tendering the apology, it was the Olugbon of Ile-igbon that first called and informed Arole Oodua on phone that he had scolded Sunday on phone on his misdeeds and that he would soon tender an apology to him on the matter. Sunday Igboho later released a video in which he tendered the apology. “Even though the way and manner Sunday behaved was sacrilegious to the Oduduwa throne, he has already apologised and I can confirm to you that Arole Oodua has forgiven him because there is no perfection in humanity. Sunday is a human being, a normal human being who could misbehave as well. “As the father of all, the Arole Oduduwa Olofin Adimula, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II, remains his father who had even identified with him in the past two weeks he began the struggle in fighting for the Yorubas, and he is still solidly behind him for the liberation of the Yorubas from criminal herdsmen who have adamantly terrorised our land.” When asked if the Ooni had ever made an official statement on the issue, Olafare said that it was not in the habit of the palace to make official statements on any matter that threatened the unity and peace of the country, especially as it affects the descendants of Oduduwa. “The palace has never officially responded and will never respond through a video. As a matter fact, it is not even our style to do so, and we have a ‘Talkless and Listen More’ history on issues like this because we focus more on what unites us together than what divides us as a people of one source,” he explained. “Like I said, Sunday Igboho has apologised and he has been forgiven. Let’s just let the matter rest like that,” Olafare stressed. 