 BY BIMPE ADEYEMI GOVERNOR Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State has signed an Executive Order banning the operations of tricycles and motorcycles, from 10:00pm to 5:00am, indefinitely in three Local Governments Areas of the state. The move, according to the Government, became necessary, following incessant attacks on innocent citizens by those identified as Shilla Boys and other criminal gangs. The Executive Order, named, “Adamawa State Restriction of Movement of Tricycles and Motorcycles Executive Order No.1 of 2021″, takes effect from February 2, 2021 till further notice. The affected LGAs are Yola South, Yola North and Girei. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Humwashi Wonosikou, quoted the Governor as saying that the activities of the miscreants were unacceptable, and had become an extraordinary threat to the peace, wellbeing, security and stability of the state’s political and economic systems. He said they also had a negative effect on the continuous development of the state and must be effectively curtailed. The Governor said no responsible government would allow criminals to hijack the peace of the state. The Executive Order prescribes a sentence of six months imprisonment with an option of N100,000 fine, or both, in addition to forfeiting the tricycle or motorcycle to the Government if found guilty for violation of the Order. The Order also states that any person found in a tricycle or on a motorcycle, stationed or in motion, within the prohibited time, whether as a rider or passenger, shall be liable to prosecution. However, only those with genuine reasons, such as seeking medical attention, providing care and assistance to the vulnerable or travelling for purpose of work, classified as essential services, are exempted. They must however justify this as reasonable cause to the Law Enforcement Agencies and the Courts. The Police and other security agencies have been directed to arrest and prosecute any person found contravening the Executive Order, according to the statement. 