 BY REBECCA AJANI CHAIRMAN, South West Governors Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, has said that the region’s fight against criminality is not targeted at any ethnic group or business. He said the stand of governors in the region against criminality was in the interest of the collective wellbeing of the people. Akeredolu, who said this during his second term inauguration lecture, held in Akure, the Ondo State capital, also vowed to, in collaboration with his counterparts in the South West, fight criminality with every legal means. He said, “What we have set out to do in the South Western States is not targeted at any ethnic nationality or business. But we are against criminality and we shall fight criminality with every legal means. “It is in the interest of our collective wellbeing. All we require is the support and understanding of all Federating Units, including the Federal Government. The simple truth is that we have lived in self-denial amid an excruciating pain that is almost cancerous now. “Notwithstanding our challenges today, my firm belief in the Nigerian Project is strengthened by my own fact of a true Nigerian.” He faulted the position of some Northern governors and leaders that Amotekun was established to tackle certain ethnic groups and business interests. The governor noted, “That I desire a more united Nigeria with every ingredient of freedom, rule of law, patriotism, love, mutual respect and harmony is an understatement…I am prepared to fight for it legitimately for the benefit of all. “Today, the most potent threat to national belief is insecurity. And because we have allowed a sustained, non-beneficial stagnation for too long in our approach, the consequences are increasingly becoming more daring.” He added, “The time to act is now, not tomorrow. As leaders, the choices we make create the path to our desires. We cannot pretend that all is well when indeed, more things are going wrong. “Today, rather than our Nation, Nigerians are more inclined to ethnic nationalism. We have resorted to clannish satisfaction in place of nation-building. We are gradually and unconsciously replacing national patriotism with sectional activism. “No one, I repeat, no one should be blamed. Our very faulty and twisted federalism is responsible. Regrettably, even those with palpable national passion and patriotism are today, gradually tilting to the unintended ethnic nationality cabin.” 