 BY AYO ESAN LEADERS of the Peoples Democratic Party in the South-West have been urged to allow peace to reign, as that remains the only way the party can regain its lost grounds in the politics of the country. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State made this plea while hosting the leaders of Ondo State PDP, who were at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, to pay him a visit, appreciate his support for the party in the last governorship election in the state and declare support for his leadership of the party in the South-West. While speaking on the crisis in the Ekiti State chapter of the PDP, Governor Makinde said, “The two warring factions should give peace a chance and I really do not think it is as bad as it is being projected in the media. “Yes, within a family, you have disagreements, which is what we are having right now and we will solve it the PDP way very soon.” Makinde told the delegation from Ondo that the party would continue to seek peace in the South-West zone because the zone was pivotal to the progress and stability of the country. He also urged the aggrieved parties in Ekiti and other states of the South-West to sheath their swords and give peace a chance, noting that the situation would soon be resolved. He said, “My message to the delegation from Ondo State is that we will continue to seek for peace in the South West chapter of the PDP. And we are doing this because we believe that the South West is pivotal to Nigeria; to turn things around in this country and we don’t want to miss the opportunity. “We will continue to appeal to the few of our colleagues that are disgruntled to let peace reign. Quite frankly, it is only God that can put anyone in a position of authority. “Basically, what we said is that our members should go back to the state and continue to reach out to those who are not happy or who are aggrieved.” Earlier in his speech, the Ondo State PDP Chairman, Fatai Adams, maintained that the Ondo State chapter of the party was in Oyo to appreciate Governor Makinde for his support during the last governorship election. He added that members of the party in the state recognised Makinde as the South-West PDP leader and would give all the necessary support to reposition the party. He said, “We are here to appreciate Mr. Governor for his support during our last gubernatorial election. “Secondly, we are here on solidarity visit to let the whole world know that we, PDP members in Ondo State, recognise him as our leader in the South-West and we are ready to give him all the necessary support.” While fielding questions from journalists on the issue of the Senator representing Ondo South, Nicholas Tofowomo and Eddy Olafeso, Adams noted that the “PDP is one and intact in Ondo State”, adding that the National Working Committee of the PDP had summoned the senator and he had  cleared himself. He added that Olafeso must sit with the leadership of the PDP in Ondo so that everyone could be on the same page. “As far as Ondo PDP is concerned, we met on the 12th of December and agreed on the zoning formula. That’s where we are standing. I can assure the entire world that Ondo PDP is intact and solidly one,” Adams stressed. 