 … Enugu First Lady commends Bank BY BANYO TEMITAYO FIDELITY Bank Plc has reaffirmed its commitment to enhancing the productivity and prosperity of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country by providing capacity building that will significantly improve their overall contribution to national development. Chief Executive Officer, Fidelity Bank, Mrs. Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, gave the assurance at the Fidelity SME National Capacity Building Webinar organized by the bank for entrepreneurs in Enugu State. The capacity building programme was organised in collaboration with the Enugu State Ministry of Trade and Commerce and the Enugu SME Centre; Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN); Nigeria Association of Small & Medium Enterprises (NASME) and Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA). According to a statement, the webinar which will take place across the country on a state-by-state basis, is part of concerted efforts by the bank to assist entrepreneurs across all sectors of the Nigerian economy to develop requisite capacity to unlock their full potentials and take their businesses to the next level of growth. Onyeali-Ikpe who provided insights into the bank’s unique approach to managing MSMEs, in her remarks, pointed out that SMEs contributed about 48 per cent of national GDP and “account for 96 per cent of businesses and 84 per cent of employment in Nigeria.” She noted that despite the significant contribution of SMEs to the Nigerian economy, challenges still persist that hinder the growth and development of the sector. She listed the main challenges to include funding, lack of infrastructure, poor management, low entrepreneurial skills, improper planning, and poor digital skills. The Fidelity CEO however noted that the webinar sought to proffer appropriate solutions to these challenges in a very practicable manner. “We have a dedicated SME Desk with innovative products and services to assist your business. Fidelity Bank, in partnership with various private and public institutions provides funding, business advisory services for all our customers. This webinar is an excellent opportunity to network, share information and deepen the SME sector in Enugu State, ” she explained. Themed “Funding and Financial Management”, the Enugu Edition had in attendance special guests including Mrs. Monica Ugwuanyi, First Lady, Enugu State, Sir Robert O. Anwatu, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Roban Stores, and Mr. Chiedozie Atuegwu, Director, Michelle Laboratories Limited, amongst others. In her remarks, Mrs. Ugwuanyi applauded the bank for its unrelenting support for MSMEs in Enugu State, noting that the Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi-led administration remained at the forefront of SME development in Nigeria as exemplified by its continuous investments in infrastructure deployment and provision of labour policy frameworks to further encourage investments. President, Association of Bureau De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), Aminu Gwadabe, also commended the bank for its sustained efforts at promoting MSMEs nationwide. Gwadabe was quoted as saying that the bank had been very supportive to its 5,000 licensed members nationwide. “The Bureau De Change (BDC) does about N1.4 trillion per annum. Fidelity Bank controls 60 per cent of these transactions in the country,” he disclosed. 