 BY TIMOTHY AGBOR, OSOGBO GOVERNOR Gboyega Oyetola of Osun State has relaxed the 24-hour curfew declared in Irepodun and Orolu councils of the state, following the communal crisis that broke out between Erin-Osun and Ilobu towns. The  reviewed curfew regime takes immediate effect. The new curfew time would now be from 6pm to 6am daily, and would subsist until further notice, a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Ismail Omipidan disclosed. The statement noted that the review became necessary following the peace meeting held between the Governor and monarchs of the affected towns and another meeting between the monarchs and the State Commissioner for Police, where the traditional rulers agreed to a peace accord and promised to rein in their subjects. Governor Oyetola thanked the monarchs for their cooperation and for honouring the invitation, it added. The statement read, “Following the peace meeting between Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the traditional rulers of of Erin-Osun and Ilobu towns, and with the return of peace to the affected towns, the governor has approved the relaxation of the 24-hour curfew declared last Sunday to forestall further breakdown of law and order. “Consequently, the curfew will now run from 6:00 pm to 6:00 am daily, and will subsist till further notice. Security operatives will therefore remain in the two councils to enforce the new curfew directive with a view to further maintaining law and order. “As we all know, the curfew was never declared to inflict hardship on our people in the first instance, but to protect them and return normalcy to the affected communities. “The State Government appreciates the monarchs and all the security agencies for their various roles in ensuring that normalcy and peace return to Erin-Osun and Ilobu. “We commend citizens and residents for their show of understanding and cooperation so far. “The Governor also enjoins residents and citizens to always channel their grievances to the appropriate authorities and resist the temptation of taking laws into their own hands.” Recall that as part of efforts to broker peace and restore unity to Erin-Osun and Ilobu, Governor Oyetola, on Monday, held a peace meeting with the traditional rulers of the two towns, the Elerin of Erin-Osun, Oba Yusuff Omoloye Oyagbodun II, and the Olobu of Ilobu, Oba Ashiru Olatoye Olaniyan II. At the meeting, which also had in attendance the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Almoroof Adekunle Magbagbeola, the monarchs pledged to prevail on their people to eschew violence and embrace peace, in the interest of all. 