 BY BANYO TEMITAYO A High Court, sitting in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, has discharged and acquitted one Chukwudi Omeh, an engine oil seller, who has been standing trial since 2013 for the death of his pregnant fiancee. Omeh, who sold engine oil at Okwo Ngbo Market in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state, was accused in 2012 of killing his fiancee, one Chinagorom Agama, on April 24, 2012, at Okposhi Eheku Ngbo of the same Local Government Area. Delivering his judgement, the trial judge, justice Vincent Nwanchor, declared the defendant discharged and acquitted over the inability of the prosecution to prove his charges beyond reasonable doubts after eight years. The judge, after the judgement, advised the discharged man to be grateful to God for granting him freedom by being a dedicated Christian. The prosecuting counsel for the state, Lilian Okorie, thanked the judge for the judgement and faulted the police for not doing appropriate investigations in the matter. She also advised the discharged man to, irrespective of court pronouncement, make lasting peace with the deceased’s family members for posterity sake. The defendant’s counsels, Cletus Egem- Nwokposi and Chioma Odera Udeh, thanked the court for demonstrating that the court was truly the last hope of the common man. The discharged engine oil trader’s joy knew no bounds for regaining his freedom after eight years behind bars in the Abakaliki Correctional Center and prayed for the peaceful repose of the souls of his beloved fiancee and unborn baby. Recall that the deceased Chinagorom Agama was a student of  Ebonyi State College of Education, Ikwo, and was betrothed to the accused person. Her corpse and bag were discovered at Alisaoko forest, with her private part, hair and breast missing. Chinagorom was three months pregnant before her unfortunate death, while Omeh was said to have been sponsoring her education. Their relationship, it was gathered, started in 1999, while they were in Secondary School, in JSS 2, respectively, but they decided to get married in 2002, when they were already both in higher institutions. 