 BY BANYO TEMITAYO THE Debt Management Office has said that about $5.8bn of foreign loans that have been approved for Nigeria have not been disbursed yet. The DMO disclosed this in a table on its portal, titled, “External loans signed but yet to be disbursed as at December 31, 2020”, on Sunday. Total external debt stood at about N11.363 trillion, or $31.477 billion, in September 2020, against total domestic debt of about N19.945 trillion. External debt is expected to increase to more than N37billion once the approved loans are disbursed. A larger percentage of the loans will be through the International Development Association, a member of the World Bank Group, according to the table. While outstanding loans from the group is about $3.27bn, a fresh $1.25bn is being expected from the Export-Import Bank of China. Nigeria is also expecting 500 million Euros from the Agence Francaise de Development and $425million from the European Development Fund. Projects and agencies that will benefit from the funds that have yet to be disbursed, according to the DMO, include:
Nigerian Supply of Rolling Stock and Depot Equipment for Abuja Light Rail Project; Nigerian Greater Abuja Water Supply Project; Nigerian National Information Communication Technology Infrastructure Backbone Phase II Project; Four Airport Terminals Expansion Incremental Project; the Nigerian Four Airport Terminals Expansion Ancillary Project; and 40 Parboiled Rice Processing Plants Project. Others are: Say No to Famine of Nigeria; Nigeria Transmission Expansion Project Phase I (NTEP-1); Nigeria Transmission Expansion Project Phase I (NTEP-1) (AGTF); Second Africa Higher Education Centers of Excellence for Development Impact (ACE 3) Project; Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project; Northern Corridor Power Transmission Project; and Enhancing Vocational Training Delivery for the Power Sector in Nigeria. Others include: Northern Core Dorsal Nord Regional Power Interconnector Project; Ogun State Economic Transformation Project; Innovation Development and Effectiveness in the Acquisition of Skills Project; Immunisation Plus and Malaria Progress by Accelerating Coverage and Transforming Service; Sustainable Procurement, Environmental and Social Standards Enhancement Project; Power Sector Recovery Programme for Results Project; and Second Africa Higher Education Centers of Excellence for Development Impact Project and the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project, among others. 