 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Samsung’s latest Galaxy S Series has received amazing reviews around the world. It is clearly Samsung’s greatest Galaxy yet. The new Galaxy S21 5G series builds on its impressive legacy to offer a premium flagship experience that makes every day epic. And starting from today, Galaxy S21 5G will be available in stores Nationwide. It is available in a variety of models, including Galaxy S21 5G, Galaxy S21+ 5G and Galaxy S21 Ultra 5G, which has the fastest processor on a Galaxy and its smartest and brightest display ever. According to the company, those who purchase the device between from February, 12 until March 7, 2021 can take full advantage of the incredible launch special. This includes a complimentary Clear Standing Cover or Galaxy S Pen with cover, a wireless charger duo, Samsung Care+. Trade In offers would also be available. This allows one to upgrade an old device with less financial burden. Customers also get N30, 000 discount. The stunning official Samsung Clear View Cover is the stylish way to keep your Samsung Galaxy S21 5G protected, whilst still being able to see your notifications. The Galaxy S21 5G Ultra 5G now includes the capability to use the Galaxy Note series’ famous S Pen1 for the first time. This technology empowers one to draw, take notes, edit photos or even take a picture with the device set up from a distance. The S Pen compatibility means you can finesse and fine-tune while editing your videos down to the last frame, with the precision that your finger simply can’t touch. According to the company, “Samsung Care+is the popular accidental damage protection service plan exclusive to Galaxy smartphones that offers even more value to your Galaxy S21 purchase. It includes 1accidental screen repairs over 12 months and a customer is only required to pay N22, 500only at repair. “For those who demand the finest flagship mobile experience, with pro-grade camera innovations and top-of-the-line performance, at various price points, Galaxy S21 and Galaxy S21+ deliver in the categories what people want most. The Galaxy S21 will be available in a range of eye-catching colours, including a new signature colour: Phantom Violet and each device is coated with a luxurious matte finish for a sophisticated look and feel.” 