 BY ABISOYE JOHNSON SOUTH West Agenda 23, codenamed ‘SWAGA 23’, has reiterated that the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, is the best candidate for the 2023 Presidency. The group said Tinubu should be put forward and supported by the South East and South South if the ruling party would respect its gentleman agreement and zone Presidency to the South, saying he is the one who can win the ticket for the South. The Chairman, SWAGA 23, Dayo Adeyeye, reiterated this position on Sunday, when drivers of the group paid a courtesy visit to the Akarigbo and Paramount Ruler of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi. He was accompanied on the visit by the lawmaker who represented Oyo South Senatorial District in the 8th National Assembly, Soji Akanbi; Gbenga Obadara, who represented Ogun Central in the 7th Assembly; and former Commissioner for Information in Oyo State, Bosun Akindele, among others. Adeyeye explained that the group was in the Akarigbo’s palace to seek his royal blessing in preparation for the official launch of SWAGA 23 in Ogun, adding that the major task before the group was to garner support for the national leader’s 2023 presidential ambition across Nigeria. He noted, “Tinubu is a good product that doesn’t need any advertisement and he has contributed greatly to the growth and development of the nation. He is a consummate democrat and progressive. “We have three geo-political zones in the South, and all of them have the right to contest for the presidency. South West is interested to contest for the presidency in 2023. The person who can help us win this ticket is Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.” He added, “He has done a lot for Nigerians, irrespective of religion and tribe. He has built bridges across the country. We gathered together to start campaigning for him. If we can hold our house together, we will have the presidency back in the South West.” According to him, the group which had earlier been inaugurated in Oyo and Osun states, will be launched in Ogun State on Tuesday. Oba Ajayi pledged his support for the group and prayed for the success of Tinubu’s presidential aspiration in 2023. He said the entire Remoland would key into the project of ensuring a true and patriotic Nigerian like Tinubu emerged as President in 2023. Former Governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel, who defected to APC a few days ago, said he had no doubt that Tinubu was a good candidate for the position. 