 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE WITH AGENCY REPORTS THE European Union, United Kingdom, United States, among other countries of the world, have condemned the military’s seizure of power in Myanmar. The European Commission President and the EU’s top diplomat demanded the immediate release of all those the military had detained in raids across the country. The EU is Myanmar’s third-biggest trading partner and has given the country special trade preferences, which could potentially be removed, although such a process would likely not be immediate, Reuters reports. “I strongly condemn the coup in Myanmar,’’ the Commission’s Chief, Ursula von der Leyen, wrote on Twitter and called for the “immediate and unconditional release’’ of all those detained. EU foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, also released a statement condemning the coup, saying “democracy must prevail’’. “The legitimate civilian government must be restored, in line with the country’s constitution and the November elections,’’ von der Leyen said, referring to Monday’s coup. On his part, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson condemned the coup, saying Aung San Suu Kyi and other civilian leaders “must” be freed. “I condemn the coup and unlawful imprisonment of civilians, including Aung San Suu Kyi, in Myanmar. The vote of the people must be respected and civilian leaders released,” Johnson said on Twitter. The U.S. however threatened to take action against those responsible for the detention of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as President Win Myint in Myanmar. “The United States is alarmed by reports that the Burmese military has taken steps to undermine the country’s democratic transition, including the arrest of State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi and other civilian officials in Burma (Myanmar). “President (Joe) Biden has been briefed by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan,” White House Spokesperson Jen Psaki said in a statement. Earlier, Western media reported that Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint were detained along with other members of Myanmar’s ruling party in an early morning military raid on Monday. “The United States opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar’s democratic transition, and will take action against those responsible if these steps are not reversed,” Psaki said. 