 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE THE Federal Executive Council, on Wednesday, approved a new National Policy on Aging for the country. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouk, said the new policy would take care of the needs of aged people in Nigeria and guarantee self-fulfillment and dignity for them. She disclosed this while briefing State House Correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The minister noted that with the new policy, older persons in the society would be guaranteed security, independence, participation, comprehensive care, self-fulfillment and dignity. “The policy covers spectrum of issues and opportunities for older persons, older persons with disabilities, older persons who are internally displaced, older persons engaged in farming in the Nigeria, in urban and rural areas,” she explained. Umar Farouk said this just as it was disclosed that FEC also approved about N18.41billion for ICT Parks and Digital Switch Over projects in the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy and the Ministry of Information and Culture, respectively. The Council gave the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, N8.98 billion approval for a new National ICT park in the Federal Capital Territory to coordinate public and private ICT hubs in Nigeria. The Federal Government also said it would soon release the timelines for the replacement of BVN with NIN in bank accounts, following a meeting with the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and other stakeholders. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, who disclosed this to State House Correspondents, noted that 4,200 square meters land had been acquired for the establishment of the ICT Park. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, also told State House Correspondents that the Council gave approval for the sum of about N9.43 billion to complete a Digital Switch Over. He said a deadline set for its implementation had previously been missed. 