 … Calls for disbandment of registration committee BY UMMU ABUBAKAR MINISTER of Information and culture, Lai Mohammed, has called for the cancellation of the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State. The Minister also demanded the constitution of a fresh Membership Registration Committee that would be “truly independent, non-compromised and sensitive to the delicate diverse interests in the party.” He made the call in his Oro country home, in the Irepodun Local Government Area of the state, on Monday, saying he was speaking for “critical stakeholders” of the party in Kwara. Mohammed spoke after revalidating his membership of the ruling party at his PU 006, Oro Ward 2. He noted that from the findings of stakeholders across the 183 wards in the 16 Local Governments of the state, it was clear that the exercise did not follow the party’s stipulated guidelines. He alleged that the activities of the committee sent to the state by the National body of the party, led by Senator John Danboyi, were one-sided, and therefore called for the disbandment of the committee. According to him, a vast majority of the APC stakeholders in the state have lost confidence in the committee. In the same vein, the minister grouped the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, the Police and other state government officials as part of those involved in the irregularities that he said had marred the revalidation exercise of the party. He said, “We, the critical stakeholders of the APC in Kwara State, hereby demand the following: “Immediate cancellation of the APC Membership Registration Exercise in Kwara State and the putting in place of a process to ensure the conduct of a credible and fair exercise that will enjoy the support and confidence of all. “The Immediate disbandment of the Senator John Danboyi-led Membership Registration Committee for Kwara State. A vast majority of the APC stakeholders in the state have lost confidence in the committee. “The constitution of a fresh Membership Registration Committee that is truly independent, non-compromised and sensitive to the delicate diverse interests in the party. “A thorough investigation into the botched membership registration exercise by the Senator John Danboyi-led committee.” 