 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Akwa United striker Mfon Udoh scored a spectacular goal froma corner kick to equal Anthony Okpotu’s 71 career goals in the NigeriaProfessional Football League in Gombe. Udoh’s curling corner kick in the second half, flew aboveeveryone in the crowded box and bounced into the bottom left corner of the postas the Promise Keepers picked their first away win. Udoh’s goal against Heartland in Owerri on Matchday 6 of theNPFL edged him closer to Okpotu’s record. Having helped his side to a well deserved win, saw him matchOkpotu’s record and his next goal will make him the NPFL highest goalscorer. The goal was Udoh’s second of the season after scoring hisfirst in a 2-1 defeat to Heartland in Owerri on Matchday 6. Despite enjoying a greater percentage of ball possession,the Promise Keepers were unable to break the defense of their hosts. Both teams failed to find back of the net with Akwa Unitedfluffing away their chances heading on several occasions. Coach Boboye made two substitutions shortly before thecommencement of the second half, David Philip and Amadi Samuel replaced UbongFriday and Otobong Effiong. But it was the hosts that missed the chance to go in frontwhen they were awarded a free-kick in a promising position after a foul byOlisa Ndah but Silas Alfred’s attempt went off target. The Promise Keepers’ attacking play opened up AdamawaUnited’s defence as Ndifreke Effiong did well to fend off a challenge beforecutting it back to Udoh whose low strike was heading towards the bottom cornerbut the goalkeeper Victor Philemon was in his element to punch it out for acorner. A second attempt atgoal by Udoh within a space of four minutes was blocked out for a corner kick. Udoh took theresponsibility and delivered a spectacular curling corner kick which evadedeveryone in the box to find its way into the back of the net in the 58th minute. The result moves the Promise Keepers to 9th on the log with12 points from eight games. Akwa United will next entertain Katsina United on Match-day9 at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Nest of Champions on MondayFebruary 8, 2021. 