 BY AGNES NWORIE< ABAKALIKI THE Ebonyi State Government has urged traditional rulers and the presidents of town unions across the state to rally support for the government in the ongoing membership and revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress. Deputy Governor of the state, Kelechi Igwe, made the appeal on the sidelines of a crucial meeting with stakeholders on the Presidential Solar Connections to increase Electricity Access in Ebonyi State, held at Old State Executive Chambers, Abakaliki. He told the monarchs and the presidents of town unions, who were part of the meeting, that it was wrong for them to be supporting another institution, rather than the Ebonyi State Government that had been providing virtually everything for them. Igwe said the Governor, himself, and other government officials decided to leave the PDP when they realised it was time to move to the next level. He expressed worry that the participation in the ongoing APC membership registration in the state was still very poor, and urged the stakeholders to rally support for the exercise. Igwe said, “I want to use this opportunity to request of you that those of you who have not registered with our party should go back home and do so. Wherever a man works that’s where he eats. “Our government cannot be providing you with virtually everything you need but you prefer to give your attention and support to another institution that doesn’t care for you. “The Governor and I, and other government officials were in PDP before but a time came when we decided that it was time to move on to the next level. And because you trust us that we won’t mislead you, I want you to join us in this journey, because at the end of it all, you will smile and reap from it.” He added, “In some polling units, the registration is poor, some have not even registered up to 100 persons. Some have gotten 500 plus and some have gotten 1000 plus in a polling unit. “For you as president generals of town unions and traditional rulers who believe in this government, no other government would have made you to be shining the way you are shining. “Any other government would have selected some traditional rulers and bought vehicles for them and then tell you more are coming and that more will not come till the end of the administration. But this one, it is the first time in the history of governance that all traditional rulers in the state have official vehicles to themselves. “Who knows, president generals, if you do well in your support for us, it will get to your turn. Go back home and sensitise the people to ensure we have the strength to do what we want to do because with a strong registration, we can make a case in this party for Ebonyi State.” “If we show apathy, it will look as if you people have rejected our government. But we want to stand strong and speak for you. What we never got before, we can get it now for Ebonyi people,” the deputy governor pleaded. 