 BY ABISOYE JOHNSON IMMEDIATE past Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has described as very necessary, the ongoing membership registration and revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress. Amosun, who is the Senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, said, considering the necessity of the exercise, those criticising it might have ulterior motives. He made his position on the subject known while revalidating his membership of the ruling party at his Ward 6, Itoko, Abeokuta South Local Government Area, on Wednesday. The former Governor was accompanied to the revalidation centre by his wife, Olufunsho; the Nigerian Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Chief Sarafa Tunji Isola; and other loyalists. He also addressed the report that some of his supporters were not allowed to participate in the registration exercise, calling for calm. On the registration and its usefulness at this period, Amosun said, “People have asked me, is this thing necessary? Yes. If you have anything, maybe yesterday, and you want to know where we are today, the best way of finding out is what we are doing; unless those who have any other ulterior motive. I am sure that all of us have seen that this thing is very necessary. Needless for me to say. “Even me, the last time we did this, two of my children were not up to 18. Today, they are 18. They will have the opportunity to register. That is even me, and everybody can say things like that.” He reiterated that there were a lot of benefits to be derived from the exercise and encouraged people to turn out to make the exercise more successful. On the alleged denial of participation against some of Amosun’s supporters, Chairman, Ogun State Membership Registration Committee of the APC, Ademorin Kuye, said he had summoned a meeting of registration officials in the state with a view to addressing the issue. He said there was no basis for blocking anyone from the exercise, noting that there were enough forms to accommodate all intending and old members of the party. 