 AYO ESAN THE Peoples Democratic Party has demanded the immediate and
unconditional release of Salihu Yakasai, son of elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai, from security custody. The party described the reported arrest of Salihu by security operatives as well as his alleged detention in a secret facility, just
after his criticism against the Buhari administration’s failures in the fight against banditry, as completely unacceptable. PDP in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Salihu Yakasai’s ordeal was a sad reminder of the sudden disappearance of
another known critic of the Buhari administration, Abubakar Idris,
popularly known as Abu Hanifa Dadiyata, since August 2019. It said, “The PDP reminds agents of the APC-led  administration that Nigeria is a democratic nation and that the rights of citizens, including their freedom of expression, within the ambit of the law, are firmly guaranteed in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and as such, must be
respected. “Our party therefore rejects the arrest of Salihu Yakasai, for joining other patriotic Nigerians in demanding a Presidential commitment of a decisive action to rescue the abducted Zamfara schoolgirls as well as to end all acts of terrorism in our country. “The PDP also condemns the decision of the Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Umar Ganduje, in summarily relieving Salihu Yakasai of his appointment as his Special Adviser on Media, on the ground that his patriotic demand for a decisive action to end terrorism, was contrary to the stand of the APC government.” The party said the action of Governor Ganduje had again heightened apprehensions on the alleged connections between APC leaders and the bandits pillaging our nation. “In this regard, the PDP demands that Governor Ganduje comes clean on the matter. This is because such stances have continued to embolden bandits while
frustrating patriotic citizens who are raising voices against acts of
terrorism in our country,” it added. The main opposition Party charged Nigerians to hold the APC and its leaders responsible for the escalated acts of banditry and terrorism in Nigeria, “as well
as any harm that suddenly comes the way of well-meaning citizens who are raising their voices against the activities of outlaws in our nation.” 