 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE 
THE Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) has vowed to shut down the National Assembly, the National Assembly Service Commission, all State Houses of Assembly, all State Houses of Assembly Service Commissions and others over the delay in the implementation of financial autonomy for the parliamentary arm of government. The union said it resolved to, “in defence of democracy, issue a 21 days ultimatum to the members’ employers, including the Federal Government, the Presidential Implementation Committee on Financial Autonomy for State Judiciary and legislature, to ensure full implementation of financial autonomy in all the 36 State Houses of the Federation, as provided in Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended.” The Union said failure to meet the above demand at the end of 21 days would leave it with no other option than to direct all its members nationwide to embark on an indefinite strike. They called on the Nigerian Governors Forum to implement their demand or face a total shutdown. The notice was jointly signed by the President of PASAN, Muhammad Usman and General Secretary, D. D Suleiman. The statement said, “Our members have ran out of patience and have resolved to forthwith put an end to condoning further delays to the implementation of the financial autonomy for State Houses of Assembly. “Consequent upon the forgoing, the union has resolved to in defense of democracy, issue a 21 days ultimatum to our employers and all other bodies charged with the implementation of letters of our constitution including Federal Government, the presidential Implementation Committee on Financial Autonomy for State Judiciary and legislature to ensure full implementation of financial autonomy in all the 36 State Houses of the Federation as provided in section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended and in Executive Oder 10. “Failure to meet the above demand at the end of 21 days ultimatum will leave the union with no other option than to direct all its members nationwide to embark on an indefinite strike. “By implication, the nationwide strike shall see the shutdown of National Assembly, the National Assembly Service Commissions, all State Houses of Assembly, all State Houses of Assembly Service Commissions among others.” 