 BY NGOZI OKORIE FORMER Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, has alleged that Chinasa Nwanari, Special Adviser on Special Duties to Governor Hope Uzodinma, led over 1,000 thugs to attack him on Sunday. Okorocha’s spokesperson, Sam Onwuemeodo, in a statement on Sunday, alleged that Nwanari and the thugs stormed the estate and destroyed vehicles in the former Governor’s convoy. The Imo State Police Command had reportedly arrested Okorocha on Sunday. The Deputy Chief of Staff (Domestics) during Okorocha’s administration, Ijeoma Igboanusi; and his Commissioner for Transportation, Lasbrey Okafor-Anyanwu, were also said to have been arrested. It was learnt that the arrests were made on the orders of the Imo State Government over alleged gross violation of government’s directives. Okorocha, who is the lawmaker representing Imo West Senatorial District in the current National Assembly, was said to have been arrested after reportedly unsealing Spring Palm Estate linked to his wife, Nkechi. The state government through the State Commissioner for Lands, Survey and Physical Planning, Enyinnaya Onuegbu, had sealed the Estate on Friday. The media aide’s statement read, “More than 1000 thugs, armed to teeth with knives and guns and led by Chinasa Nwaneri, Governor Hope Uzodinma’s Special Adviser on Special Duties today, Sunday, Feb. 21, 2021, with the backing of armed policemen from Government House, attacked the former governor of the State and Senator representing Imo West Senatorial District, Senator Rochas Okorocha’s Convoy. “They attacked and damaged all the Vehicles in his Convoy. They also attacked his personal aides. “Senator Okorocha was with only his personal aides when the thugs unleashed the attack. “This is the information we can give as of now. We are still watching events as they unfold. “Okorocha has the strongest political structure in the state and teaming followers in the State. If he had expected the attack, he would not have moved with his personal aides alone. “Okorocha has never been a violent man. This planned attack but unprovoked and unwarranted has opened a new, but ugly chapter in the politics of the State. We shall react fully to the situation.” 