 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE FORMER Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, has reacted to calls for the rejection of the nomination of ex-service chiefs as non-career Ambassadors by President Muhammadu Buhari, describing his retirement and subsequent appointment as honourable. Buratai said he had no words for those opposing his appointment, adding that he had done well. “It’s an honourable retirement and also an honourable appointment. I’m not a politician, so I have no word for the opposition. I have done well,” he said. He noted that officers who were appreciative of his efforts at the Army Headquarters had compiled a dossier of the various developmental projects he embarked on across the country. Buratai spoke on Sunday night, during a dinner organised in his honour by members of the 29th Regular Course Foundation, in Abuja. On his tenure as Chief of Army Staff, he said, “I am happy that in July last year, my officers at the Army headquarters compiled a compendium of my achievements. “In fact, I can’t even remember all the projects that we have executed. Is it in terms of infrastructure? Is it in terms of capacity building? Is it in terms of training?” He added, “Since I was appointed, there was never a dull moment in terms of training. Remember the various exercises. These are training exercises from ‘Python dance’, ‘Crocodile smile’, and even the latest one ‘Exercise Sahel Sanity’. “Is it in the area of medical? In terms of education of our children and wards, the Nigerian Army University are all great achievements.” The former service chief, however, expressed sincere gratitude to President Buhari for appointing him as Chief of Army Staff, stressing that he discharged his responsibilities to the best of his ability. Thanking Nigerians for their support, he said, “I must appreciate all Nigerians, my well-wishers, the youths, elders, men and women for their continuous prayers, goodwill and support to the Nigerian Army and me in the course of our duties to bring about peace and security in our country.” 