 BY FOLASHADE SHIYANBOLA THE Lagos State University Community, on Wednesday, celebrated former Acting Vice-Chancellor of the university and renowned Professor of Science Education, Prof. Peter Okebukola, as he retired from the service of the university and clocked the age of 70. In his message, the Acting Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Oyedamola Oke, felicitated with the renowned Professor, noting that as former Acting Vice Chancellor of the University and former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, Okebukola contributed positively to the university and the educational sector in Nigeria. He said Okebukola was an absolute force of nature, a transformative leader and trailblazer. He also described him as an unfathomably loyal staff of the university whose dedication and unalloyed commitment to the service of the institution, in the face of more prestigious offers, was a stuff of legends. “Most recently, his role in LASU’s appointment by the World Bank as Africa Centre of Excellence in Innovative and Transformative STEM Education (ACEITSE) is particularly remarkable; just as is his effort in successful take-off of the Centre,” he said. Prof. Oke joined his family, friends and well-wishers to rejoice with him on the landmark age of 70 years and prayed that he would celebrate many more years in perfect health and with all the blessings that his heart desires. The immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, in his congratulatory message, also described Okebukola as his worthy mentor who imbued in him so many excellent practices. “The confidence that one must radiate when speaking in public, how to apply practical knowledge as distinct from the theoretical in policy decisions were just few of the many things that you ingrained in me,” he said. “When I became the VC of our great institution, you stood firmly with me and held my hand for five years and LASU became a household name. I will forever thank God for giving me the opportunity to be your mentee. You were one of the critical winning JOKERS that God used for us to turn LASU round,” he added. 