 BY ANDREW EKEJIUBA Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has urged Rivers Angels to win the Nigeria Women Football League(NWFL) Premiership and be the first team to represent Nigeria in the maiden edition of the CAF Women’s Champions League. Wike stated this on Thursday when he donated a brand new Yutong buses, ambulances and other vehicles to Rivers Angels Football Club at the Government House in Port Harcourt. The governor also promised Rivers Angels that he will give the team N10m for any away game they win in the ongoing 2020/2021 NWFL season. Admonishing both players of Rivers United and Rivers Angel told them they have the opportunity to write their names in gold while promoting the image of the state, and they should not compromise it. “I believe that when you have an opportunity, you shouldn’t miss it. “This is the time, not only to win laurels for the state, but also to print your name in gold. ” Let it be known that you’re part of the team that brought laurels and trophies to this State. “Let me assure you that the State Government will not relent to give you all the necessary support that you require to make you bring trophies at the end of this season. “The same applies to Rivers Angels. “Win the trophies, be the first to go and play tournament in Africa, then your life will also change.” The governor also motivated the teams with financial rewards should they secure any away win. He told them to always show that they are truly Rivers wherever they go for any competition, and be determined to emerge as the best at all times. Henceforth, for the Rivers United, “Any match you win away, you’ll have a bonus of N10 million. “The same amount applies to Rivers Angels. “Continue to show other teams that you’re really Rivers. You don’t need to take second. “You need to take first all the times.” Wike further announced donation of a Coaster Bus to the Supporters Club for always providing moral boost for the teams. While thanking the governor, General Manager of Rivers Angels Matilda Otuene said Governor Wike is not only gender friendly but a real father who has improved welfare conditions for them. “She said the club has been enabled to retain a foreign-based player.” 