…urge political parties to come together against menace  BY FOLASHADE KEHINDE Nigerians across the major ethnic groups have called on politicians to come together at this trying period to collaborate on effective ways of ending what they described as “war against humanity” in Nigeria. The professionals, who spoke in separate interviews with The Point, said the problem was not that of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration alone but affected all Nigerians, including drivers of major opposition parties. They, therefore, said those behind the menace must be dealt with as common enemies, regardless of political affiliations or ethnic considerations. Lead Strategist, Economic Solutions, Andrew Anosike, told one of our correspondents that it was wrong for anyone to blame the Buhari government totally for rising insecurity in the country, noting that there were also headlines of kidnappings and banditry during the former President Goodluck Jonathan administration. According to him, though many of those in the Buhari government are playing politics and not paying attention to the consequence of letting the fear in the land get to an unbearable point, politicians must treat the current situation of senseless bloodletting and incessant abduction, especially of school children, as a war situation that needs anti-war measures. “The Peoples Democratic Party, and indeed other parties, should at this time, shelve the blame game. They should offer genuine hands of support on this and play politics later. The bloodletting is too much and if we are not careful, the nation will go up in flames literally,” the economic analyst said. Another analyst, Founder of AAA Initiatives, Abubakar Abdullahi, said Nigeria had never had it this bad.
He, however, said, though it was not in doubt that the current administration came into government unprepared, it was clear that the spate of killings, abductions and criminal activities, across the country, could consume everyone if care was not taken. He said, “We can’t leave this in the hands of the Buhari government alone anymore. We must fight for our children that are being kidnapped, molested, maimed and killed on a daily basis. “This was not the country given to us by our heroes. Something must be done. The religious leaders are not also helping matters. We must come together as one and not cause further tension with unverified and unguarded statements against other religions or ethnic groups.” “The result is what we are seeing. The Federal Government has called for help, but we should be able to solve this domestically.  It starts with the right frame of mind of political, religious and other leaders,” the Kano-based political analyst stated. On his part, Adewale Soyombo, a public affairs analyst, based in Lagos, said it was time the Federal Government listened to dissenting voices of the opposition and not continue to exchange words on life threatening issues like criminality. He said, for instance, that the response of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, to Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State’s outburst on the spate of killings in his domain, was uncalled for.
“It is time to restrategise on the security situation and stop all these attacks and counter-attacks. Nigeria is burning. All hands should be on deck,” he stressed. 