 BY AGENCY REPORTER BORIS Johnson is being investigated by Parliament’s standards watchdog over the funding of a £15,000 break he enjoyed to the Caribbean. The Prime Minister and fiancee Carrie Symonds jetted to the island of Mustique for a New Year getaway following the Tories’ 2019 election landslide. But a row quickly erupted of how exactly the luxury trip to the private paradise isle was funded. New transparency rules today meant the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards has revealed she is investigating the Prime Minister for a possible breach of the MPs’ Code of Conduct. It comes a year and five months after he and Carrie Symonds enjoyed a trip to the elite island. The investigation is likely to raise fresh questions about whether Mr Johnson is relying on friends and allies to maintain his lifestyle. He has still not declared whether he took a loan from a Tory donor to fund a £58,000 refurbishment of the Downing Street flat. And he has refused to deny a Tory donor was approached about the prospect of funding a nanny for his and Carrie Symonds’ son Wilfred. The flat refurbishment is already facing three separate inquiries, including one by the Electoral Commission into whether an offence was committed over donations. Mr Johnson and Miss Symonds, who announced their engagement less than three months later, stayed on a villa on the island, part of St Vincent and the Grenadines, between Boxing Day and January 5, 2020. The Moroccan-style stone villa had six double bedrooms, three private swimming pools, two bars, a library and four dedicated staff – a butler, chef, gardener and housekeeper. Millionaire Tory leader Mr Johnson also enjoyed three ornamental ponds, a gazebo and three 4x4s to explore the 1,400-acre private island – a haunt of celebs and the royal family. Pictures of the villa include four-poster beds, open-air terraces overlooking stunning views, and a swimming pool – while Ms Symonds posted a snap of her driving a boat during the trip. Created by Swedish architect Arne Hasselqvist in the 1970s, the sumptous Oceanus villa is described as “perfect for large families and house parties” by its owner. The MPs’ Register of Interests stated the accommodation had a “value” of £15,000 and was covered by Carphone Warehouse co-founder David Ross. The telephone tycoon initially said he had not paid for the holiday. But he later issued a clarification saying the register “is correct” and he had “facilitated accommodation”. A spokesman for the businessman said today: “Mr Ross facilitated accommodation for Mr Johnson on Mustique valued at £15,000. “Therefore this is a benefit in kind from Mr Ross to Mr Johnson, and Mr Johnson’s declaration to the House of Commons is correct.” A Downing Street spokesman said: “All transparency requirements have been followed, as set out in the Register of Members’ Financial Interests.” An inquiry was launched last March into declarations surrounding the trip. New rules which came into force today meant Commissioner Kathryn Stone was able to confirm the identity of MPs she was investigating. Ms Stone today said she is investigating a “Registration of interest under Category 4 of the Guide to the rules [Visits outside the UK] in 2020”. She is examining whether Mr Johnson breached Paragraph 14 of the Code of Conduct for MPs. That paragraph says: “Members shall fulfil conscientiously the requirements of the House in respect of the registration of interests in the Register of Members’ Financial Interests. “They shall always be open and frank in drawing attention to any relevant interest in any proceeding of the House or its Committees, and in any communications with Ministers, Members, public officials or public office holders.” MPs must declare gifts and hospitality they get within 28 days on the Register of Members’ Financial Interests, with any serious breaches can result in suspension. But Boris Johnson has got away with at least three breaches with only a slap on the wrist. He breached the Ministerial Code in August 2018 by starting a £275,000-a-year newspaper column just three days after quitting as Foreign Secretary. In December 2018 he was ordered to apologise for failing to declare £52,723 of income on time. And in April 2019 he was 11 months late registering his 20% share in a property in Somerset. At the time Parliament’s Standards Commissioner accused him of a “lack of respect” for the system adding: “I do not accept that this was an inadvertent breach of the rules.” – mirror.co.uk 