 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has directed that activities to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitri should be low key. He gave the directive on modest celebration to mark the end of Ramadan fast, owing to the coronavirus pandemic. A statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, said Buhari had also cancelled the traditional Sallah homage during which time he receives religious, traditional and political leaders at the State House. This routine was also cancelled last year. The President would be restricted to having a low-key Eid prayer on the forecourt of the Presidential Villa with his family and few public servants, the statement said. It added, “To this effect, the President, First Family, his personal aides, members of cabinet and Service Chiefs who choose to remain in Abuja will congregate in full compliance with COVID-19 protocols at the forecourt of the Presidential Villa to observe the Eid prayers. Time fixed for the prayer is 9:00am. “Thereafter, there will be no traditional Sallah homage to the President by religious, community and political leaders. As was the case last year, the President encourages such leaders to be content with modest celebrations at home in view of the pandemic. “President Buhari specially thanks the Ulama (Islamic clerics) and all other religious (Muslim, Christian) leaders who continue to pray for the wellbeing of the nation and its people.” The President, however, joined worshippers for the closing session of the Ramadan Tafsir at the State House Mosque, on Sunday. The session offered prayers for Allah’s protection to be upon the nation, its people and the leaders, Garba Shehu’s statement said. The President and worshippers listened to the final round of the daily interpretation of the Quran delivered by Sheikh Abdulwahid Abubakar Sulaiman, the Chief Imam, which they had done throughout the fasting period. In the final episode, the Imam reviewed the virtues of Ramadan and prayed against disunity, unrest, anger and crimes. He also prayed to God for peace, harmony and security for the nation and its people. 