I don’t respond to threats or blackmail  Getting Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State to grant an interview was a herculean task. As a leader who is constantly charting new ways of advancing his state in spite of many challenges, there would hardly be such luxury of time for a tell-all exclusive chat. After four days of waiting for the right window in Kaduna, the Governor spoke with the Editor-in-Chief of The Point Newspaper, YEMI KOLAPO. The narration of what he has been through in the course of public service and his uncommon explanation of the peculiarity of Nigeria’s problems were, indeed, worth the wait. Excerpts: What legacy do you want to leave in Kaduna State? I have not really thought very much about legacy. The funny thing about legacy is that you don’t really define it accurately. You may think that something is really important, but at the end of the day, people may think that something else is important. I always tell the story of what I thought was the most important thing I did in Abuja, and what turned out to be the most enduring was not what I thought. Kaduna was ahead of every part of Northern Nigeria at a point, but over the years, we’ve been left behind. And what we’ve been trying to do in the last six years with my team is playing catch up, expanding opportunities for people without regard to their ethnicity or religion. We’ve been levelling the playing field, ensuring that the poorest and the most vulnerable get the same opportunities, as everyone else, to climb the social ladder. So, we have been investing strongly in education, particularly public education. We have been investing in healthcare because we were losing too many babies and mothers during childbirth. We have been reforming the public service to make it a public service, not government of kings looking down on the people as if they are their masters when it is the other way round. We have been reforming the public service by bringing in younger and smarter ICT compliant people into the government and easing out the old guys, the dead woods who cannot adapt to the 21st Century. We have tried to improve teacher quality; we have sacked incompetent teachers, we have hired tens of thousands of competent teachers. Those are the things that are close to our hearts, but the results may take 30 years to show. So, for us, as a team, this is our major legacy – institutional reforms in education, in health care, in governance. Insecurity is a major issue. What has been done so far? Yes, security, Kaduna State has suffered more than most states in the north, the ethno-religious crisis, divisions and so on. But we are healing that. We are using a combination of carrot and stick to heal that. Southern Kaduna is quiet to a large extent. It has never been quieter for quite a while, largely due to measures that we have taken. We are facing banditry and kidnapping but we are dealing with those issues too. So, these are the things that we think are important, but people consider roads more important because they see them, but they don’t see the institutional reforms and the impact of the institutional reforms on the long-term health of the state. They don’t see what we are doing in attracting investments because it is not that apparent. People are getting jobs and so on, but when you build a road, it is more visible. However, what we are doing in infrastructure is getting us more attention and more commendation than all the hard work we did in reforming the governance of the state that led to the inflow of resources that are now being used to fund the infrastructure. So, legacy is very difficult to define because we have our own priorities, but the people may end up thinking it is something else. My hope is that on May 29, 2023, I will leave behind a state that is more united, more inclusive, more integrated, less divisive, less tied to ethnic and religious paradigms. I think even now, we know that we have made progress in that direction. But two years from now, we would have to assess that. You mentioned in the beginning that you lost your father at a very young age. Can you share one thing you would always remember about him? He always encouraged me to take my studies seriously. Even on his death bed, when we last saw him, what he said to me was, ‘the key to your success in life is to take your education seriously. Don’t joke with your education.’ Less than an hour later, he was dead. So, I never forgot that. That is why, for me, education is everything. The opportunities I got as an eight-year-old orphan; the opportunities I got attending a public school and then going to Barewa College, though I was the son of nobody, and getting here, were all as a result of the vision of some people to ensure that everyone’s child got decent education. This is why, for me, the most important thing I had to do, as Governor of Kaduna State, was to ensure that public education is restored to its previous quality as much as possible. That was why when people told me that if I dared to test teachers, I would lose election as (Governor Kayode) Fayemi did in Ekiti State, I said I would rather lose elections and have good teachers so that young orphans like me would have the same opportunities that I had, than for me to have a second term in office. So, we damned the consequences, we did what we did, we did the tests, fired 22,000 of them and we still got re-elected. Politicians don’t understand that the ordinary people are smarter than they think. The ordinary people knew what we were doing by sacking those bad teachers. They knew that we were working for them, that we were putting everything on the line for them, and they came out strongly to re-elect us. Education is very important; it is the key to everything. It is the key to giving people equal opportunities. It is our most important priority as a government, but the results will take 30 years. That is why many politicians ignore education; there are no immediate results to show for their investing in education. It takes 30 years before you get to see the results. But here in Kaduna, we take a long-term view. We’ll invest today; we’ll do whatever we can today because we want to secure the future of the state 30 years from now. If you become the President of Nigeria today, what would be your first assignment? It is a completely speculative question and I have not thought about it. I have never thought about being President of Nigeria. And as I said, if you want to run for President of Nigeria, you need to plan. You have to prepare psychologically, intellectually, emotionally and financially. There are many dimensions to it. I tell you, anyone that answers that question has either thought of running for president for a long time, or is foolish, because he will just tell you what comes to his mind. The presidency of Nigeria, as I said, is a very very big deal and you don’t go into it without very deep reflection. 