 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU ABUJA The former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and foremost contender to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) ticket for the November 6 Anambra State governorship elections, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo has been described as the most suitable person, not only to fly the flag of the Party but to also take over from the incumbent Chief Willie Obiano, whose two terms expires next year. Making the assertion in an interview with The Point, Mr Joe Anatune, Media Strategist to the Soludo Campaign Organization, said the achievements of Soludo at all levels have been speaking loudly in his favour in the race for the state’s governorship seat. He noted that the people of Anambra State have remained excited from the very day the former CBN governor declared his intention and have persistently encouraged him to forge ahead in his quest for the exalted seat. “Let me tell you a little about Prof Chukwuma Soludo. He was a teacher, a lecturer who studied at the University of Nigeria Nsukka and also lectured in same institution. He was invited by the Federal Government during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration to serve at various capacities including Special Economic Adviser to the President, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Economic Development which he transformed effectively and created various economic developmental programmes. He authored the NEED programme which was the basis for Nigeria’s debt relief from the Paris Club.” Mr Anatune noted further that the popularity of the former CBN Governor cuts across the aged, the youth, men, women and children that are not even of voting age adding that they have consistently declared him a man who will finally lead Anambra state to the promised land after a prolonged journey. He maintained that the Isuofia born professor has proved to even those who would not like him for whatsoever reason, that he is a valuable gift to the state, country and even the entire globe with the achievements he made wherever he was assigned a responsibility and argued that it is on this premise that Anambra people are clamouring for him to be the man that will lead them in the next four years. “Remember that before the coming of Soludo as Governor of CBN, banks in Nigeria were mere glorified homes where monies were kept but after the introduction of consolidation, our banks started ranking among other banks in the world that the global business community could rely on their services. The banks that survived the process became stronger, bigger and more reliable,” he said. Having seen these track records of the man who would not blow his trumpet but allows his achievements speak for him, Anambrarians threw their weight behind him this time around having waited for such an opportunity. Mr Anatune disclosed that there was something that has never happened in Anambra politics before which is happening now. He noted that because of the clamour, the people of Anambra have raised many support groups that have been spending their resources, time and everything asking him to come out and this spreads across the youth, women, professionals and nonprofessionals. He however, noted that the clarion call by the Anambrarians came at the right time because it was a call to a man who has already offered himself to serve his people at this level having served them at various capacities even in the present administration of governor Obiano. Arguing that the APGA foremost aspirant is the most qualified for the exalted seat of the governor, Mr Anatune said, “We have made mistakes in the past before governor Obiano came on board, now we want to vote for a man who is not asked by godfathers to contest but a man who has made up his mind to offer services to our people and by so doing will not abandon the projects initiated by the present governor but would execute them to a completion and initiate his also.”
Mr Anatune acknowledged the presence of moneybag politics in the state where multi billionaires who are not politicians and have no interest in occupying the governorship seat would not mind spending their several billions to stop a candidate for whatever reason but noted that the presence of moneybags will not change the music which everybody in the state is dancing and that music is “Soludo is the answer”. He added that the APGA aspirant has an attraction to all the classes of people of the state with his programme which is so exciting to the people of the state that have so much believed in him and what he can do for the state and people.
“Let me make this clear. Go and check or ask any Anambrarian whether in the state or in the Diaspora about the achievements of Gov. Obiano. They will aptly tell you, he is a performing governor and that is accurate. Gov. Obiano’s seven years plus are memorable. He has made Anambra State safe even in the midst of security challenges, building of infrastructures without hugging the media for headlines. He has also increased the State’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) because the Diasporas remit their money. “Why I told you this is to let you know that Prof Soludo has been in the governor’s economic team and will certainly consolidate when given the mandate. This is a blessing to our state and our people. It has been the dream of Prof Soludo to turn every town in Anambra state to a mega city. The governor has laid a solid foundation for this and Prof Soludo will build on the foundation, Anambra State will be better for it.” 