 BY BENEDICT NWACHUKWU, ABUJA The state of security in the country is about the greatest nightmare confronting the government and citizens of the world’s largest black nation, Nigeria. It is such that the leaders and the led are wailing for help from the global community which might not be feasible in the near future, what with the Presidency throwing its weight behind a member of the Federal Executive Council and Minister of the Federal Republic, Isa Pantami, though he has his name on the US terrorists’ sponsors watch-list. Previously, those on the corridors of power were playing the ostrich, bluffing appeals from the citizens who desire security of lives and properties but the reverse has become the case. It began as a cloudy weather that was not going to let down the downpour but gradually the shower came, and with the authorities not ready to nip it in the bud, the situation has turned to a deluge, to the effect that everyone; the leaders at all levels, the led, citizens, visitors, men, women, youth and children are all enmeshed in the nasty situation, better imagined than experienced. Before now, the politicians had treated the situation with kid gloves by shifting blames, accusations and counter accusations. Those in the ruling All Progressive Congress  would readily brand anybody who dared to condemn the act of terrorism unleashed on innocent, defenceless and unarmed citizens as enemies of the country or those plotting to overthrow the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Once this notion was created, the Federal Government’s attack dogs would, without hesitation be, unleashed on the perceived enemies. While the Federal Government buried its head like the proverbial ostrich, pretending that all was well, the problem of insecurity continued to escalate by the day. The country became a strong base for terrorism to the extent that Nigeria is now being compared with Afghanistan and Somalia. The groups increased under different names like Boko Haram, Bandits, Killer Herdsmen but with similar ideology, yet, analysts say the Federal Government did not see reason to strategically tackle the spread. While the Buhari-led Federal government reportedly continued to dilly-dally, the terrorists gained grounds all over the zones of the country and the results gave birth to various militia groups formed to either fight and defend their territories or to give it back to the perceived terrorists and supporters. But that was not to be. As sheep without shepherd, these mushroom organisations have snowballed into a dehydrated monster eating up those they were established to secure. Kidnapping, killing, maiming and raping have now become free for all, particularly for the AK-47 carriers, yet to the government, not much seems to happening. They persistently claim that it is not as bad as portrayed by the haters of President Buhari, hell-bent to pull his government down. Media reports on April 11, 2021 revealed that the US government had placed Nigeria’s Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, on that country’s terror sponsors’ watch-list. The news shook the foundation of the country. Citizens back home and in the Diaspora began to make different calls. Some called on the Minister to resign. Others demanded that the Federal Government should sack him. Yet a segment of the population called on him to remain in office and ignore the “noise” about him. The debate expectedly and true to Nigerian manners, took the shape of “we and them” which expressed reasons why terrorism had gained grounds in the country. Some people have even said evidences abound to prove that the Minister is guilty of the accusations. He came out publicly to affirm that he had support for the world’s deadliest terrorist organisation Al Qaeda and was even holding same ideology with late Osama Bin Laden. There are publications and comments credited to him that he did not deny rather claimed that those were made in the past. What should baffle the good citizens of this country is that the government of APC under the leadership of a war General, President Buhari was quick to respond in the defence of the man the whole world has compelling proof against. However, some Statesmen and patriotic Nigerians, regardless of tribe, religion and language have risen up to condemn the involvement or inclusion of a serving minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the United States of America’s Terror Sponsor Watch-list and lent their voices in calling the President Buhari government to take action and prove to Nigerians and the entire world that it detests terrorists and terrorism. But on 22 April 2021, a press statement from the office of President Buhari, through his Senior Special Assistant, Media, Garba Shehu, defended and gave unshaking support to the Minister alluding reasons for the support, while vilifying those calling for his sack or resignation, tagging them ‘the problem of the country’. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) met and there was no mention of the issue. The House of Representatives sat but the Speaker overruled efforts by a member to bring it to the floor and automatically “killed the move”. But all the playing the Ostrich, bluffing and grandstanding failed as Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC) from Kogi State wept on the floor of the Senate while condemning the dastard acts of terrorism. In his words, “Let’s tell the President the truth”. “There are many implications of the statement that has confirmed the fears of the citizens, often referred to as “ordinary Nigerians”. It is either President Buhari has been cut off from the citizens and their affairs in a way that he doesn’t know what is happening or that his aides are telling him lies or make-belief that all is well,” a public affairs analyst, who would not want to be mentioned, said. “Apart from his aides, maybe the leadership of the National Assembly have also been telling the President lies. If all of the above is wrong, how could Senator Adeyemi be challenging his colleague federal lawmakers to tell the President the truth. “It is not lost on the public that during the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, on issues that has to do with the country, the press statement normally read ‘the President said’,” he added.
Even under former President Goodluck Jonathan, the press statements on national issues consistently read ‘the President said’. People are left wondering why it has become different in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, with all statements released to Nigerians, saying, ‘the Presidency said’. “This compounds the problems facing Nigerians and the fears that terrorism may have come to live with us since the Presidency appears to have thrown its weight 100 per cent behind a Minister on the global terror sponsor watch-list,” another analyst opined. 