 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI EZZA Ezekunna, the most populated clan in Ebonyi State, has reaffirmed its commitment to the task of peace and development of the State. Traditional rulers and stakeholders of the clan made their position known in a four-point communique after an extraordinary meeting with Governor David Umahi at the Christian Ecumenical Centre, Abakaliki, on May 5, 2021, geared towards absolute peace and progress of the state. Presenting the communique, on behalf of the people of the clan, the Secretary to the State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, said the clan resolved to always promote peace while supporting the administration of Governor Umahi, for the progress of the state. They pledged to support in tackling insecurity in the state, disassociated themselves from media attacks on the governor and urged the general public to disregard the publications. The clan said, “Ezza Ezekunna people reaffirm our support and commitment to the Ebonyi project and this administration in the stride to develop our State. We resolved to continue to play the leading role in keeping the State united on the path of peace. “Ezza Ezekunna clan condemns in its entirety, the serial media attacks on the person of the Governor, especially on social media. We ask the Governor and the general public to disregard the uninformed and hate-filled rantings of those agents of retrogression.” While condemning the crises in some parts of the State, the Ezza clan commended Governor Umahi for his efforts at restoring peace in the troubled areas and pledged to collaborate with him to achieve lasting peace. “Ezza Clan condemns incessant security breaches and communal wars in some parts of the State, especially as it concerns Ezza people. We commend His Excellency’s drive in ensuring peace in various parts of the State, especially the Effium area. We resolve to collaborate with the Government to ensure restoration of peace in all the crisis areas,” it said. The clan charged traditional rulers to use all possible means to control the excesses of the youths who perpetrate senseless attacks on Government facilities in the State. 