  …as state launches free medicare for 6000 public servants
BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI GOVERNOR David Umahi of Ebonyi State has ordered the Secretary to the State Government, Kenneth Ugbala, to issue queries to local government council chairmen in the state in whose council areas INEC facilities were set ablaze by hoodlums. Umahi, represented by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Uchenna Orji, made the disclosure recently while briefing newsmen on the outcome of this week’s Executive Council meeting. He named the two affected council chairmen as Dr Nora Aloh of Ezza North and her Ebonyi Local Government Council Area counterpart, Mrs Chinyere Nwogbaga. According to him, also to be queried, among others, are the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. The two INEC offices at Ezza North and Ebonyi Local Government Council areas of the state were set ablaze by hoodlums shortly after attacks on the Federal High Court, Abakaliki, three weeks ago. Both the sensitive and the nonsensitive documents had reportedly perished in the occurrence. Several attacks, targeted at security agents and their facilities, had taken place in parts of the state in recent time leaving several casualties in its trail. Meanwhile, the governor has expressed his administration’s readiness to inaugurate a free medical care scheme for 6000 public servants in the state. Governor Umahi spoke in reaction to the news of the death of Mrs Uche Okah, Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development in Ebonyi State. Okah passed on recently at a hospital in Abuja where she was receiving treatment following an undisclosed illness. Umahi said that the scheme would cover free hepatitis testing of 4000 public servants and free cervical cancer testing against hepatitis while 2000 women would undergo free cervical cancer screening. He stated that the medicare for both public servants and other members of the public was aimed at improving the health for the citizens. The governor, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Francis Nwaze, commiserated with the husband of the deceased, Mr Celestine Okah. The statement described her as a dependable ally in the success story of Ebonyi State under his administration. It read in part, “We have received with rude shock the sad news of the abrupt demise of your amiable wife and dependable asset to our government, late Mrs Uche Okah. No doubt, her demise has placed a lot of responsibility on your shoulders but we encourage you to hope in the Lord for comfort bearing in mind that both my family and government are saddened by this unfortunate incident and we all share with you in this moment of grief.” It added that the passage of Mrs. Okah, at a time she was committed to joining forces with the government to bequeath enduring legacies to the people of Ebonyin, was devastating. Also, it prayed God to grant the soul of the departed rest and grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. 