 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE …warns Buhari against ‘challenging God’ Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has responded to the allegation that he requested for contracts from the President Muhammadu Buhari administration and was rebuffed, saying it is laughable.
Mbaka said whoever said that had shamed himself as well as those he represented, noting that the message he gave to warrant such a response from the Presidency was “unchallengeable”. The clergy man, who spoke while addressing his congregation on Sunday, stressed that he had been silent for long because he was waiting for the Buhari government to change, but that God told him to speak.
Recall that Mbaka had called on Buhari to resign or be impeached by the National Assembly over rising insecurity in Nigeria. But in reaction to this call, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, had said his attack was as a result of his failure to get contracts from the Federal Government after lobbying.
The clergyman however warned that anyone challenging his message was inadvertently challenging the God of thunder and should be careful. In his sermon, Mbaka said, “When they talk about giving Fr Mbaka contracts, I don’t want to talk about that because it is a laughable, childish accusation. Whoever is saying that is a shame to himself and shame to the people he is representing. “Fr Mbaka’s voice came from the spiritual, so what I am saying is unchallengeable. I have been silent because I was waiting for them to change until God said ‘speak’. Some messages are like dew, some are like rain while some are like thunder. Anyone challenging that message is challenging the God of thunder and should be careful.” He added, “The Fr Mbaka who was speaking is not just a priest but by the special grace of God, a job provider. To the glory of God, those benefitting directly from me monthly through direct salary are not less than 23,000 people. “That person challenging Fr Mbaka, how many people are you feeding? So if I talk, you talk? Because the government is paying you? “I’m not here to defend any allegation, but the three men he mentioned are people that could have handled the nation’s insecurity. This was during Buhari’s first term and these men told them they could help conquer insecurity.”
According to him, the men had the platform to end insecurity within one month, under late Abba Kyari. “I just handed them over to government. They only asked me to help them reach government and offered to help insecurity, revive the nation’s economy through putting an end to theft of crude oil and providing employment,” Mbaka noted. “Anyone who says the truth is branded a terrorist. Are those given contracts better than me? They have shown that they don’t have a reward mechanism. The last person this administration should fight is Fr Mbaka,” he warned. 