 AGNES NWORIE ABAKALIKI EBONYI State Police Command said on Monday that it had arrested the mastermind of the coordinated attacks on three Police Divisional Headquarters in the state. The attacked police headquarters are in Onicha, Abaomege and Ohaozara Local Government Areas of the state. The Command said it also arrested another robbery suspect, identified as Eluu Ekpehu Emmanuel, who reportedly offered useful information that led police operatives to the house of other suspects. Items such as firearms and ammunition, including one (1) Double Barrel English Gun, with 11 live cartridges, one (1) Locally made Single Gun, one (1) Riot Police Smoke Gunner, stolen from Ohaozara Police Divisional Headquarters, three (3) Police Bartons, one (1) Hand Grenade, one (1) Canister of Teargas, and two (2) Police Belts, were recovered. Other items that were recovered included two (2) Police Radio Communication Handset with Chargers; all stolen from Onicha Divisional Headquarters, which was also attacked and set ablaze on February 4, 2021; four (4) Biafra Flag and one (1) “Juju Box”. These were disclosed in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Loveth Odah. She said, “On the 20/05/2021, at about 1700hrs, following the Intelligence report of movement of arms and ammunition and the report of armed robbers terrorising Isu, Onicha LGA, One Eluu Ekpehu Emmanuel was arrested, who made useful statement to the Police and led Police operatives to the house of their gang leader, popularly known as ‘Blood’, other names unknown, who is alleged to have been terrorising the area and the mastermind of the various attacks on three Police Divisional Headquarters in the area, namely Onicha, Abaomege, and Ohaozara. “Blood and his cohorts, on sighting the Police, opened fire on the Operatives who gallantly fought back. In the process, Blood was apprehended with gunshot injuries while others escaped into the nearby bush with bullet wounds. Blood’s house and premises were immediately searched and items were recovered. “The wounded suspect was immediately rushed to AE-Federal Teaching Hospital (AE-FETHA) Abakaliki for medical treatment, where he later gave up the ghost. “The Corpse was deposited at the same hospital mortuary for preservation. The gang is responsible for the attacks on government facilities and the killing of security agents in the State.” “The Commissioner of Police, Ebonyi State Command, CP Aliyu Garba has reaffirmed his resolve to rid the state of criminal elements and frustrate their activities,” the PPRO noted. 