 BY AGNES NWORIE, ABAKALIKI A human rights group, International Federation of Women Lawyers, has confirmed that a soldier raped a minor and left her in a pool of blood at Umuezeoka village, Effium community, in Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. One of the military men (name withheld) deployed to the crisis area in Effium allegedly raped the 13-year-old minor, who was sent to fetch water from the neighbouring village, Umuezeokoha, by her mother. The soldier was said to have abandoned her in an uncompleted building in a pool of blood. Confirming the incident, the Ebonyi State chairperson of  FIDA, Grace Iheanacho-Chima, disclosed that, in collaboration with the association, the Commandant of Nkwegu Military Cantonment, Lt Col Erhabor Igbinadolor, who condemned the act, had fished out the suspect. She said processes were on ground to take him to Enugu State for disciplinary action. She said, “She was raped by a soilder at the war zone in Effium.The soilder brutally raped her that she bled for many days even in the hospital. It was so bad that she underwent some operations to correct the damage done on her during the brutal rape. “The attention of FIDA was drawn from the point she was admitted at Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki (AEFETHA 1) for the surgery. So I personally went there and saw her bleeding profusely on her hospital bed, and immedately, FIDA petitioned the military cantonment commandant in the state. Because of the seriousness, I personally delivered the letter to the commandant and speedy action was taken. “A few days after that, the defaulting soldier was arrested. The Commandant called and informed us about the development and we went there and saw him. We were asked to bring the victim and her mother which was done and they obtained their statements. We were told that he would be taken to Enugu State for court martial proceedings, so that is the stage we are now. “We have obtained medical records; we took pictures, recorded the video of when she was bleeding. It is our duty to ensure that justice is given to the poor girl.” On her part, mother of the victim, one Mrs Igwe Ogonna, disclosed that the ugly incident happened on 21st day of March 2021, between 1pm and 3pm, when she sent her adolescent daughter, to fetch water, in company with some other people going to their neighbouring village. Mrs Igwe said she became worried when  her daughter exceeded the time she was supposed to return and in the course of her search, she saw her in pains in a pool of blood in an uncompleted building, away from the said water well. The poor woman, who is nursing some fear about the possiblity of her daughter not being able to give birth in future because of the damage inflicted on her during the rape, called on all concerned authorities to help her get justice. Efforts to speak directly with the victim as of the time of filing this report was not successful. 