<0a href="https://www.ubagroup.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"> BY ABISOYE JOHNSON GUNMEN suspected to be smugglers, on Thursday, allegedly attacked officials of the Nigeria Customs Service, Ogun 1 Command at Oja-Odan, in Yewa North Local Government Area of the state. Two persons were killed, while 10 others sustained gunshot injuries in the attack, which occurred while officers of the NCS were on information patrol to Oja Odan. Those who sustained injuries include four Customs operatives, one soldier and five civilians assisting in the evacuation of smuggled rice. The incident was disclosed in a statement issued by the Spokesperson for the Command, DSC Bukoye Oloyede. He said, “At 0200hours of Thursday, 6th of May, 2021, Officers and Men of Nigeria Customs Service, Ogun I Command Military personnel were on information patrol to Oja-Odan, Yewa North of Ogun State. “Based on credible intelligence, the patrol team intercepted about three hundred and twenty bags of foreign parboiled rice of 50kg each out of the large number stockpiled in a building around the said area. “During the evacuation of the said rice, some diehard smugglers aided by unscrupulous elements and hoodlums in their numbers and armed with sophisticated weapons shot and attacked the patrol team. “They shot sporadically at officers. Unfortunately, four Customs operatives, one soldier and five civilians assisting in the evacuation sustained gunshot injuries. They were immediately rushed to the hospital for proper medical attention and are currently responding to treatment. “The patrol team repressed the attack by gunning down two of the hoodlums and left many others with gunshot injuries. “The patrol team succeeded in evacuating the aforementioned items, arrested one suspect, Mr Taiye Kujo and six motorcycles used by the suspected smugglers, and conveyed all to the Customs house at Idiroko.” The spokesperson said investigation was ongoing to fish out more perpetrators of the barbaric act. Area Controller, Ogun Area 1 Command, Comptroller Peter Kolo, has, however, assured the general public that the renewed hostilities by armed smugglers will not deter his officers and men from discharging their statutory responsibilities. 