 BY LINUS CHIBUIKE The Department of State Services has warned those it described as self-centred individuals and groups to stop engaging in acts inimical to the peace and sovereignty of Nigeria. The DSS reaffirmed its unambiguous support to an indivisible, indissoluble and united country, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, but said it would no longer tolerate deliberate machinations by subversive and hostile groups whose agenda was to throw the country into anarchy, allegedly to serve the interests of their sponsors. It said some religious and past political leaders who had either called for a forceful change of government or mass action against it, were among those threatening the Federal Government and Nigeria’s unity. According to the DSS, even though democracy gives room for free speech, it does not allow reckless pronouncements.
These were contained in a statement by the Spokesperson for the DSS, Peter Afunanya. The DSS said, “While the Service reaffirms its unambiguous support to an indivisible, indissoluble and united Nigerian State in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, it will no longer tolerate deliberate machinations by subversive and hostile groups whose agenda is to throw the country into anarchy so as to serve the interests of their sponsors. “Consequently, the Service is assiduously working with other security and law enforcement agencies to ensure the maintenance of peace and internal security of the country.” The Service added that the main objective of sponsors of hostile groups was to cause a disintegration of the country, noting that they were also collaborating with external forces against Nigeria. It stated, “It is unfortunate that those in the forefront of this are respectable individuals who should be patriotic and not allow their personal ambitions to ruin the nation. The Service has also noted their desperation and penchant to collaborate with external forces and influences against Nigeria. “They are reminded that even though democracy offers free speech, it does not give room to reckless pronouncements capable of undermining security. It is instructive to note that the ballot box remains the vehicle of change in a democracy.” “In this regard, self-centred individuals and groups are warned to stop engaging in acts inimical to the peace and sovereignty of this nation. In the same manner, influential personalities should be sensitive to emerging situations and guard against divisive and inciting utterances that may cause a breakdown of law and order,” the Service warned. 