‘I’ve never thought of being President of Nigeria’ Getting Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State to grant an interview was a herculean task. As a leader who is constantly charting new ways of advancing his state in spite of many challenges, there would hardly be such luxury of time for a tell-all exclusive chat. After four days of waiting for the right window in Kaduna, the Governor spoke with the Editor-in-Chief of The Point Newspaper, YEMI KOLAPO. The narration of what he has been through in the course of public service and his uncommon explanation of the peculiarity of Nigeria’s problems were, indeed, worth the wait. Excerpts: What would say prepared you for leadership from childhood? It is a combination of many things. I lost my father when I was eight years old, but because the northern regional government at the time had free education system, I went to school, I went to public schools; I never went to a private school. I didn’t know what a nursery school was. I didn’t have that privilege. I went to a village school and when my father died, I was fostered to my uncle in Kaduna and I went through school here in Kaduna and Zaria – Ahmadu Bello University. The education I got laid the foundation for me to be whatever I have turned out to be. The upbringing I got, of discipline, of sacrifice and resilience, also contributed. I took my studies very seriously and was quite successful as a student and graduated at the age of 20. I was one of the youngest graduates at that time. I did my National Youth Service in Abeokuta, Ogun State, and came back to work here in Kaduna. All through the time I was working, I never thought of leadership, I just wanted to make a little money, buy my own house, my own car and be comfortable; and if I get rich enough, I buy a generator for my house in case NEPA doesn’t work. That was the thinking at the time for many of us that came out of university. So I would not say there was any conscious effort to prepare one for leadership. I never even contemplated it. Of course, I went to Barewa College, which produced five of Nigeria’s presidents, 20 governors and several ministers. We have a very strong Old Boys’ Association and we were constantly reminded, even as teenagers then, that this was a school that produced leaders, ‘you guys are going to be the leaders of the north and Nigeria, you have to be responsible, you must be disciplined and inclusive.’ This was because Barewa College was like a Federal Government College. We had students from the former South Eastern States, Cross River State, Kwara State, Oyo State; we had people from across Nigeria. So, from childhood, we understood that Nigeria was diverse and that we were all the same. We ate in the same places, played together. Some of my most enduring friendships started at Barewa College. At the back of our minds, we all thought that we were trained to be leaders. In Barewa, we were told that we should make a very clear choice very early in life. ‘If you want to be rich, choose the path of the private sector; if you want to serve people, but not be rich, just comfortable, join the Army or join the public service.’ Barewa College had a very strong cadet corps that encouraged people to go into the Armed Forces and the Police or Public Service, if you are interested in public service. That’s why the first 20 officers commissioned into the Nigerian Army had five Barewa Old Boys. But remember, public service is not where you make money. I made up my mind for the private sector rather than the public service. Of course, I was too short to be accepted in the cadet corps, so joining the Army was not an option. When you add up all this, one may not be aware of it, but perhaps you were being unconsciously prepared for leadership. But I didn’t think about it at the time. It was not until I was in my mid-thirties that I realised that competent government must be in place for society to function and even for the private sector to flourish. You need competent people in public service to make the private sector operate successfully. That was when I decided that if I had any opportunity in public service, I would take it. Earlier, I had rejected overtures. I was to be Commissioner for Education in this state in 1991. I was approached but I rejected it because I felt that my life should be in the private sector. I did not think the public sector was that important. However, the fact that many of us found ourselves in this (public service) and we were not prepared for it, is one of the reasons, for instance, here in Kaduna State, we have a mentoring programme, not only within the government, but with a fellowship programme called Kashim Ibrahim Fellows Program. We bring in 16 young Nigerians who are selected competitively. We usually get 3,000 applications and we pick 16. We bring them to work for one year with the Kaduna State Government. Through the period, they go through leadership seminars, mentoring and so on. It was something I missed but I felt it was a necessary part of deliberately preparing young people for future leadership. We take people from the age of 25 to 35; they must have University degrees. They apply, write essays, and the best 16 are picked every year. I hold the view that leaders should not emerge by accident. Successful countries deliberately prepare young people for leadership; they train them, they identify the best and brightest and put them on the path of leadership. If you go to the United Kingdom, you will find that a disproportionate percentage of UK Prime Ministers and Cabinet Ministers are Oxbridge and LSE Graduates. Three universities produce most of the ministers as well as Prime Ministers. If you go to the United States, three universities – Harvard, Yale and Princeton – produce a disproportionate number of United States’ Presidents because they identify people with that potential and deliberately put them through the best schools in order to give them the best exposure and training to prepare them for leadership.
If you go to Singapore, it is the same. If you look at the Singaporean Executive Council, their cabinet, everyone there is brilliant, and you could see the level of preparation. All of them have gone to the Harvard Kennedy School, Oxford or Cambridge. You cannot run away from it. No country can make progress unless its best and brightest are in public service. This means there must be deliberate efforts towards this too, in Nigeria… In our country, we have to be very deliberate about it and this is why we started this program – the Kashim Ibrahim Fellowship program. Within the government, we deliberately pick young people and bring them in as Special Assistants. When they prove themselves, we elevate them to either Special Advisers or even give them an agency to run, so that they learn. They will definitely make mistakes, but we correct and guide them. Those who do even better, we move to Commissioner level, which is the highest political position you can achieve without being elected. In Kaduna State, we have many of such young people who joined us as Special Assistants and today, they are in the cabinet as Commissioners. There are also people that joined as Special Assistants and now, they are running agencies. They are young people in their mid-thirties and mid-forties, and we hope that they will be the next generation of leaders for Kaduna. They will be the next set of people that will one day be governors, ministers and so on.
These 16 people are not all from Kaduna State. They are from all the states of the federation, but we get them to live together for one year in the same hotel, they interact for one year, and over that time, they understand that Nigeria is pretty much the same. The level of their ethnic or religious affiliation gives way to a nationalistic ideal of where Nigeria should be. During their one-year programme, they not only do seminars about leadership, but they also study some countries that have done well like China, Singapore, Japan, Botswana, Rwanda and India. How did they do it? What lessons can we learn from them? What are we doing wrong? So that we plant seeds in their minds to begin to think of how they would address Nigeria’s problem when their time comes. We encourage them to join the public service. Some of them come from the private sector, and after that one year, they switch, because we show them that it is important to have a very effective and efficient public service. That is the only way that the private sector will also thrive. There is no other way. Interview Continues(See next post) 